AI Tools for Research - Artificial Intelligence (Generative) Resources - Guides at Georgetown University
Skip to Main Content
User account menu
Your Account
Toggle navigation menu
Services
Borrow & Renew
Interlibrary & Consortium Loans
Request & Pick Up
Course Reserves
Office Delivery
Equipment
Disability Support
Printing & Scanning
Off-Campus Access
Software
LinkedIn Learning
Research
Research Consultations
Research & Course Guides
Citation Tools
Subject Librarians
Digital Scholarship
Data Services
Design & Create
Digital Publishing
Scholarly Communication
Copyright
Articles & Databases
Collections
Rare Books, Manuscripts, Art & Archives
Articles & Databases
DigitalGeorgetown
Library Catalogs
Audio & Video Collection
Slavery, Memory & Reconciliation
Exhibitions
Library Maps & Call Number Locations
Spaces
Study Spaces
Computing Spaces
Meeting & Instruction Spaces
Maker Hub
Digital Media Studios
Gelardin Center
Booth Family Center for Special Collections
Writing Center
Carrels & Lockers
Bioethics Research Library
Blommer Science Library
Lauinger Library
Georgetown University in Qatar Library
School of Continuing Studies Library
All Georgetown Libraries
About
Hours
Maps & Directions
Events
Give to the Library
Policies
Contact Us
Staff Directory
Library Departments
Library Showcase
Library Guides Research Guides Artificial Intelligence (Generative) Resources AI Tools for Research
Search this Guide Search
Artificial Intelligence (Generative) Resources
Home AI Fundamentals AI Tools for Research AI Research Tools Additional AI Tools How to Craft Prompts  Research Resources on AI Latest News on AI Ethics & AI Citing Generative AI  AI, Authorship, & Copyright Campus Resources and Policies
About This Table
The resources described in the table represent an incomplete list of tools specifically geared towards exploring and synthesizing research. As generative AI becomes more integrated in  online   search tools , even the very early stages of research and topic development could incorporate AI. If you have any questions about using these tools for your research, please  Email a Librarian .
AI Research Tools
AI tools for research can help you to discover new sources for your literature review or research assignment. These tools will synthesize information from large databases of scholarly output with the aim of finding the most relevant articles and saving researchers' time. As with our research databases or any other search tool, however, it's important not to rely on one tool for all of your research, as you will risk missing important information on your topic of interest.
NAME
WHAT IT DOES
UNDERLYING DATA
IS IT FREE?
MORE INFORMATION
Elicit
Using large language models (LLMs), Elicit finds papers relevant to your topic by searching through papers and citations and extracting and synthesizing key information.
Semantic Scholar Database
Free with paid subscriptions available.
Elicit FAQs
Perplexity
Using LLMs, perplexity is a search engine that provides AI-generated answers (much like ChatGPT) including citations which are linked above the summaries.
Internal search index
Free with paid subscriptions available.
Perplexity FAQs
Consensus
Similar to Elicit, Consensus uses LLMs to help researchers find and synthesize answers to research questions, focusing on the scholarly authors' findings and claims in each paper.
Semantic Scholar Database
Free (20 searches/month); Paid version allows unlimited searching.
Consensus FAQs
Semantic Scholar
Semantic Scholar (which supplies underlying data for many of the other tools on this list) provides brief summaries ('TLDR's) of the main objectives and results of papers.
Semantic Scholar Database
Semantic Scholar is currently free.
Semantic Scholar FAQs
Research Rabbit
Research Rabbit is a citation-based mapping tool that focuses on the relationships between research works. It uses visualizations to help researchers find similar papers and other researchers in their field.
Research Rabbit uses multiple databases, but does not name them (more information can be found on the  FAQ page ).
Research Rabbit is currently free.
Research Rabbit FAQs
Connected Papers
Like Research Rabbit, Connected Papers focuses on the relationships between research papers to find similar research. You can also use Connected Papers to get a visual overview of an academic field.
Semantic Scholar Database
Free (5 graphs/month); paid version allows unlimited graphing.
Connected Papers - About
scite
scite has a suite of products that help researchers develop their topics, find papers, and search citations in context (describing whether the article provides supporting or contrasting evidence)
Many different sources (an incomplete list can be found  on this page )
No. ( Pricing information )
scite FAQs ;  how scite works
Scholarcy
Scholarcy summarizes key points and claims of articles into 'summary cards' that researchers can read, share, and annotate when compiling research on a given topic.
Scholarcy only uses  research papers uploaded or linked by the researcher themselves . It works as a way to help you read and summarize your research, but is not a search engine.
Free (short articles only); Paid version allows articles of any length.
Scholarcy FAQs
ChatGPT
While the AI chatbot ChatGPT is typically thought of as a writing tool, it can be used in the initial idea development phase of research, and can also be of use in finding further sources. (Remember to always look up sources to verify their credibility.)
The  paid versions of ChatGPT are currently connected to the internet through Bing . The free version was trained on data last updated in September 2021, but that might change in the future.
There is a free version available.
OpenAI Help Center - ChatGPT
Gemini
Designed by Google, Gemini (formerly Bard) is an AI-powered chatbot that responds to natural language queries with relevant information. As with ChatGPT, researchers can use Gemini to aid in topic development and initial source discovery.
Gemini can currently connect to the Internet.
Gemini is currently free to use. (Personal Google account required, does not work with GU accounts.)
Gemini FAQ
Additional AI Tools
Additional AI Tools
Georgetown University's Center for New Designs in Learning and Scholarship (CNDLS) offers a  list of additional AI tools  with a range of different purposes including visual design, writing, time management, and more.
Ithaka S+R has created a  Generative AI Product Tracker  which lists tools by their primary purposes and includes pricing information, as well as updates on the tools' features and limitations.
<<  Previous:  AI Fundamentals Next:  How to Craft Prompts  >>
Last Updated:   Nov 21, 2024 1:40 PM
URL:   https://guides.library.georgetown.edu/ai
Print Page
Login to LibApps
Report a problem
Subjects:  Artificial Intelligence
This work is licensed under a  Creative Commons Attribution NonCommercial 4.0 International License . |  Details of our policy
Contact Us
Directory
Visit
Maps
Services
Research
Collections
Spaces
About
Instagram
Facebook
YouTube
Georgetown University Library
37th & O Streets, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20057-1174
202-687-7607
Privacy Policy
Copyright
Web Accessibility
Notice of Non-Discrimination