Citing Generative AI  - Artificial Intelligence (Generative) Resources - Guides at Georgetown University
Skip to Main Content
User account menu
Your Account
Toggle navigation menu
Services
Borrow & Renew
Interlibrary & Consortium Loans
Request & Pick Up
Course Reserves
Office Delivery
Equipment
Disability Support
Printing & Scanning
Off-Campus Access
Software
LinkedIn Learning
Research
Research Consultations
Research & Course Guides
Citation Tools
Subject Librarians
Digital Scholarship
Data Services
Design & Create
Digital Publishing
Scholarly Communication
Copyright
Articles & Databases
Collections
Rare Books, Manuscripts, Art & Archives
Articles & Databases
DigitalGeorgetown
Library Catalogs
Audio & Video Collection
Slavery, Memory & Reconciliation
Exhibitions
Library Maps & Call Number Locations
Spaces
Study Spaces
Computing Spaces
Meeting & Instruction Spaces
Maker Hub
Digital Media Studios
Gelardin Center
Booth Family Center for Special Collections
Writing Center
Carrels & Lockers
Bioethics Research Library
Blommer Science Library
Lauinger Library
Georgetown University in Qatar Library
School of Continuing Studies Library
All Georgetown Libraries
About
Hours
Maps & Directions
Events
Give to the Library
Policies
Contact Us
Staff Directory
Library Departments
Library Showcase
Library Guides Research Guides Artificial Intelligence (Generative) Resources Citing Generative AI
Search this Guide Search
Artificial Intelligence (Generative) Resources
Home AI Fundamentals AI Tools for Research How to Craft Prompts  Research Resources on AI Latest News on AI Ethics & AI Citing Generative AI  Citing Information Generated by ChatGPT/AI APA Style (7th Edition)  Chicago Style (18th Edition)  MLA Style (9th Edition)  AI, Authorship, & Copyright Campus Resources and Policies
Citing Information Generated by ChatGPT/AI
Ask your program about their guidelines for incorporating information generated by ChatGPT and other AI in your papers. When permissible to use that information directly, make sure to cite a generative AI tool whenever you paraphrase, quote, or incorporate any content (whether text, image, data, or other) that was created by it.
Use the information below to learn more about specific guidelines for each major citation style.
APA Style (7th Edition)
While the  American Psychological Association (APA) has not released official guidelines on citing generative AI quite yet, the recent  post on the APA Style Blog  provides guidance on citing ChatGPT adaptable to other AI tools.
The general recommendation is for the Methodology and/or Introduction of your paper to specify the following:
The prompt you used when utilizing ChatGPT; and
The text that the chatbot produced in response. If the response from ChatGPT is lengthy, please include it in the form of an Appendix.
As for the in-text citation and the Bibliography/Reference/Works Cited item that will follow this description, follow the examples below:
In-text example:
(OpenAI, 2023)
Reference example:
OpenAI (2023). ChatGPT (May 24 version) [Large language model]. https://chat.openai.com/chat
Chicago Style (18th Edition)
The Chicago Manual of Style provides guidance for citing ChatGPT and generative AI tools within its newly issued 18th edition, Section  14.112 . To ethically incorporate the information product generated by ChatGPT or other AI, the Manual’s recommendation is to cite “[a]ny specific content, whether quoted or paraphrased,...where it occurs, either in the text or in a note. Like personal communications (see  14.111 ) and social media posts (see  14.106 ), chatbot conversations are not usually included in a bibliography or reference list.” The specific information to include in the text or in the note when citing AI-generated content is as follows:
The prompt used when utilizing ChatGPT or other AI;
The AI software used to create the content (e.g., ChatGPT) and the software’s publisher or developer (e.g., OpenAI);
The date when the content was generated;
The URL (if available) of a publicly archived copy of the conversation;
In-text example:
The following definition of a multi-site case study comparison method was generated on September 9, 2024, by ChatGPT-4o, using the prompt “Explain what is a multi-site case study comparison method using recent published examples.”
Note example:
1. Response to “Explain what is a multi-site case study comparison method using recent published examples," ChatGPT-4o, OpenAI, September 9, 2024,  https://chat.openai.com/share/90b8137d-ff1c-4c0c-b123-2868623c4am4 .
Please note that similar guidelines apply to citing an image created by/with the help of AI (see  3.38 ):
In-text example:
Fig. 3 Image generated by ChatGPT-4o, September 12, 2024, from the prompt “Create an image of libraries in France.”
MLA Style (9th Edition)
MLA now provides preliminary official  guidance  for citing information produced by generative AI. According to MLA, writers should:
Cite a generative AI tool whenever they paraphrase, quote, or incorporate into their own work any content (whether text, image, data, or other) that was created by it;
Acknowledge all functional uses of the tool (like editing your prose or translating words) in a note, their text, or another suitable location;
Take care to vet the secondary sources it cites.
Additionally, writers should not credit the AI as an author. The description of the content of the generated product should be treated as the title of the source, as if it were an article or chapter title.
In-text example:
While the green light in  The Great Gatsby   might be said to chiefly symbolize four main things: optimism, the unattainability of the American dream, greed, and covetousness (“Describe the symbolism”), arguably the most important—the one that ties all four themes together—is greed.
Works Cited entry example:
“Describe the symbolism of the green light in the book  The Great Gatsby  by F. Scott Fitzgerald” prompt.  ChatGPT , 13 Feb. version, OpenAI, 8 Mar. 2023, chat.openai.com/chat.
<<  Previous:  Ethics & AI Next:  AI, Authorship, & Copyright >>
Last Updated:   Nov 21, 2024 1:40 PM
URL:   https://guides.library.georgetown.edu/ai
Print Page
Login to LibApps
Report a problem
Subjects:  Artificial Intelligence
This work is licensed under a  Creative Commons Attribution NonCommercial 4.0 International License . |  Details of our policy
Contact Us
Directory
Visit
Maps
Services
Research
Collections
Spaces
About
Instagram
Facebook
YouTube
Georgetown University Library
37th & O Streets, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20057-1174
202-687-7607
Privacy Policy
Copyright
Web Accessibility
Notice of Non-Discrimination