Popular chatbots and research - AI Tools for Research - Research Guides at Temple University Skip to Main Content University Libraries Libraries Research Guides Topic Guides AI Tools for Research Popular chatbots and research Search this Guide Search AI Tools for Research This guide offers advice on AI-powered tools and functionality created for or used in academic research. Home Assessing AI research tools Popular chatbots and research Exercise caution Perplexity: A free chatbot with a research plug-in Ask the Post AI: A free chatbot from The Washington Post Related guides AI in library subscriptions Searching literature Mapping literature Summarizing literature AI and evidence synthesis Working with data Writing code Presenting and publishing Get help Exercise caution Popular chatbots such as Bing Copilot and Google Gemini are connected to the open web but don't have connections to scholarly literature databases meant for research. ChatGPT does not have a scholarly literature database connection, but some custom GPTs do have one. Generative AI chatbot responses often include a mix of correct and incorrect information. Popular chatbots without a connection to scholarly sources may make up fake citations when asked for scholarly research, or they may cite a real reference in a way that misrepresents its contents. See more about chatbots and web search on Temple Libraries' guide to Generative AI and Chatbots . You may not want to rely on popular chatbots for any high-stakes purpose, such as conducting scholarly research. Try some of the tools recommended on this guide that have direct connections to scholarly literature and data sources, and are aimed at supporting academic research. Perplexity: A free chatbot with a research plug-in Perplexity An "answer engine" that includes web search and has an interface similar to popular, standalone chatbots. Perplexity has free access to scholarly research plug-ins. Set Focus=Academic to search Semantic Scholar and PubMed. Set Focus=Wolfram Alpha for data discovery, visualization, and mathematical calculation. Accepts file uploads. See the Perplexity FAQ for help documentation. Use Perplexity's AI Companion browser extension for Chrome to apply its conversational search to particular domains. Set to Focus: This Domain. Try it on: library databases , institutional repositories like TU Scholarshare , and other scholarship aggregators, like CORE UK . Use the Chrome browser extension to generate shorts summaries of Google Scholar search results: Do a search in Google Scholar . Set to Focus: This Page, click Summarize, or prompt it to "Generate a short summary of each search result." Ask the Post AI: A free chatbot from The Washington Post Ask the Post AI A chatbot that provides brief, written responses drawn soley from text-based news stories published by The Washington Post since 2016, and ranks the results based on relevancy. All published recipes have also been indexed. Future releases may incorporate reporting from the video and audio desks, as well as commentary and opinions. See the Ask the Post AI FAQ for additional information. Access to the chatbot and written responses are free; however, access to the referenced news stories are behind