Searching literature - AI Tools for Research - Research Guides at Temple University Skip to Main Content University Libraries Libraries Research Guides Topic Guides AI Tools for Research Searching literature Search this Guide Search AI Tools for Research This guide offers advice on AI-powered tools and functionality created for or used in academic research. Home Assessing AI research tools Popular chatbots and research AI in library subscriptions Searching literature Searching with AI tools Multi-functional AI "research assistants" Tools for literature searching Related guides Mapping literature Summarizing literature AI and evidence synthesis Working with data Writing code Presenting and publishing Get help Searching with AI tools The following tools aim to help you find research on a topic. They all have AI- or machine learning-based features, such as semantic search, text summarization, conversational interfaces, and more. Important notes: Most tools search one or more open indexes of scholarly literature such as Semantic Scholar, CrossRef, OpenAlex, Dimensions, and others. Some of these sources have >200 million records and others are more restricted. None are as large as Google Scholar , which is estimated to have almost 400 million records (including a large amount of gray literature indexed by automated web crawlers). Check the tool's help documentation for information about its sources. See this Wikipedia page for a sortable list of the largest literature indexes, and the SearchSmart website for a handy disciplinary comparison tool. Access to citation/abstract metadata and full open access articles still omits a vast amount of scholarly research contained in full-text paywalled articles. An AI tool's responses and summaries will be limited by the exact nature of its access. Tools with a connection to scholarly literature do not tend to make up fake citations, but they may cite a real reference in a way that misrepresents its contents. None of these tools are appropriate for systematic review searching, which requires explicit search strategies that are transparent, documented, and reproducible. For help with systematic review searching, contact our service team through the Evidence Synthesis & Systematic Reviews page . Off campus access to full text Easily get the full text of paywalled articles using Temple Libraries' LibKey Nomad browser extension , or our off-campus access bookmarklet . LibKey Nomad gives one-click access to scholarly articles through the Nomad icon that appears as you browse the web. The bookmarklet quickly reloads any webpage through the Libraries' remote access proxy server. Multi-functional AI "research assistants" Elicit A multifunctional research assistant with a free basic tier. Searches ~125 million items from Semantic Scholar, which only includes open access full text. Extracts information from PDFs, allows PDF upload, and has a Zotero integration. Read more about the free vs. paid plans in Elicit's Help Center . Scispace Multi-functional research assistant tool with a free tier. Includes AI summarizing, information extraction, personalization features, Chrome browser extension, Zotero integration, and other utilities. Literature search draws on a corpus of >150 million items. Writing assistant portion has a freemium model. Use the SciSpace Chrome browser extension to