Center . Scispace Multi-functional research assistant tool with a free tier. Includes AI summarizing, information extraction, personalization features, Chrome browser extension, Zotero integration, and other utilities. Literature search draws on a corpus of >150 million items. Writing assistant portion has a freemium model. Use the SciSpace Chrome browser extension to enhance Google Scholar search results. The extension will put icons on your results page that allow you to chat with a search result, find similar papers, or run the same search in SciSpace. Tools for literature searching Consensus Searches Semantic Scholar database using a proprietary combination of semantic and keyword search . Uses AI to extract, aggregate, and summarize findings based on the top few search results. Free accounts can make unlimited searches and can bookmark articles and save searches. Dimensions Research GPT A freely available, tailored version of ChatGPT that is connected to Dimensions data and offers answers based on Open Access publications. Results include references to source material. jenni Searches for relevant research as you write a document. Substantial free tier, allows uploads of your own sources, including PDFs. Keenious Searches for relevant research as you write in a Word or Google Doc. Can also search for research based on a seed article you supply. Perplexity An "answer engine" that includes web search and has an interface similar to popular, standalone chatbots. Perplexity has free access to scholarly research plug-ins. Set Focus=Academic to search Semantic Scholar and PubMed. Set Focus=Wolfram Alpha for data discovery, visualization, and mathematical calculation. Accepts file uploads. See the Perplexity FAQ for help documentation. R Discovery Literature search tool with other features like recommended feeds based on your preferred topics, a journal recommender and an AI writing assistant. Semantic Scholar This link opens in a new window Note: Temple users, choose "Sign in with your Institution," to enable full-text article access, save papers to your library, and create custom alerts.Semantic Scholar is a free and non-profit AI-powered academic search engine from the Allen Institute for AI with >200 million items covering all disciplines. Has many personalization features, AI-generated TLDR summaries, Semantic Reader with personalized annotation and skimming tools, Research Feed search alerts, easy citation manager exporting, and an Ask This Paper AI chatbot. Extensive help documentation in the FAQ . Undermind.ai A "deep search" tool with 10 free searches per month. Takes a verbose user prompt and searches over titles and abstracts in Semantic Scholar. This is an agent-style tool that runs multiple searches and learns from the results, yielding more comprehensive search results than many other tools. The company's own benchmarking claims to find it better than Google Scholar. Details in their whitepaper . Related guides Connect to Resources from Off-Campus by Erin Finnerty Last Updated Aug 22, 2024 1008 views this year << Previous: AI in library subscriptions Next: Mapping literature >> Last Updated: Nov 20, 2024 11:41 AM URL: https://guides.temple.edu/ai-research-tools Print Page Login to LibApps Report a broken link or other problem . Tags: AI , AI assistants , AI coding