Wolfram|Alpha for research. See the Perplexity FAQ for help documentation. Manage your chatbot settings It is possible to customize some account, data, and privacy settings in many chatbots and tools. Anthropic's Claude does not have such settings because of their safety-first approach. Anthropic was founded by former OpenAI employees who disagreed with OpenAI's departure from its initial non-profit plans. Read more about Anthropic's core views on AI safety . ChatGPT personal data controls FAQ Explains OpenAI's current uses of account holders' personal data and includes instructions for turning off chat history and model training, exporting your ChatGPT history and data, and managing other account settings. Google Gemini Apps Privacy Help Hub Clearly describes how Google handles your Gemini Apps data and explains how to configure your settings to use Gemini without saving your conversations to your Google Account. Links to instructions on how to manage and delete your Gemini activity . Microsoft Edge, browsing data, and privacy Microsoft doesn't make it as clear as Google and OpenAI how to manage your Copilot settings. It does allow you to manage Edge browser and Bing search privacy settings, which relate to Copilot through the Microsoft privacy dashboard . This help document describes some of the details. Perplexity data privacy options Instructions for managing data settings and opting out of AI improvement training are in Perplexity's FAQ. << Previous: How chatbots work Next: What chatbots do less well >> Last Updated: Oct 17, 2024 11:53 AM URL: https://guides.temple.edu/ai-chatbots Print Page Login to LibApps Report a broken link or other problem . Tags: AI , AI ethics , artificial intelligence , Bard , Bing , chatbots , ChatGPT , Copilot , digital literacy , Gemini , generative AI , machine learning , misinformation , Perplexity , prompt engineering , prompt optimization Temple University University Libraries See all library locations Library Directory Locations and Directions Frequently Called Numbers Need help? Email us at asktulibrary@temple.edu