Working with data - AI Tools for Research - Research Guides at Temple University Skip to Main Content University Libraries Libraries Research Guides Topic Guides AI Tools for Research Working with data Search this Guide Search AI Tools for Research This guide offers advice on AI-powered tools and functionality created for or used in academic research. Home Assessing AI research tools Popular chatbots and research AI in library subscriptions Searching literature Mapping literature Summarizing literature AI and evidence synthesis Working with data Data discovery Quantitative data and computation Write code to work with data Working with qualitative data Related guides Writing code Presenting and publishing Get help Data discovery ChatGPT ChatGPT can discover openly available datasets and can generate datasets from narrative information on the open internet. Free accounts have some limited access to its data analysis and visualization, and there are GPTs for working with data, such as Excel AI, Wolfram, and others. Data Commons Free Google initiative that organizes a wide range of publicly available data into a uniform visualization and download platform. The Explore interface uses generative AI to accept and interpret natural language questions. Microsoft Copilot Microsoft's chatbot, Copilot, can find datasets from the open internet and, if opened as a sidebar in the Edge web browser, can analyze content you provide it. Perplexity Web search engine with a chatbot interface. Has free access to scholarly research plug-ins such as Wolfram Alpha for data discovery, visualization, and mathematical calculation. Accepts file uploads. Quantitative data and computation ChatGPT ChatGPT has data analysis and visualization capabilities and custom GPTs for working with data. Deepsheet AI tool for conversational data analysis. Accepts many import formats and allows exporting responses and outputs. Julius Chatbot data analyzer and visualizer with a free tier allowing a set number of messages per month. Offers good FAQs, guides, and videos in their documentation . Power BI Desktop Note: Windows users at Temple can download Power BI Desktop through Office 365. Power BI Desktop's AI Insights includes a collection of pre-trained machine learning models that can enhance data preparation. Access AI Insights in the Power Query Editor. Powerdrill Chatbot data analysis platform with a free tier limited to a few messages per month. Details and video tutorials available in their documentation . Wolfram Alpha This link opens in a new window Wolfram|Alpha offers dynamic computations based on a vast collection of built-in data, algorithms and methods. Temple users have free access to Wolfram|Alpha Pro. See Temple ITS' site licensed software page for more details. Tableau Agent & tableau Pulse Brings "trusted generative AI" to the Tableau platform. Tableau Pulse is a reimagined data experience for business users, powered by Tableau AI. Tableau licenses are available through some Temple departments. See Temple ITS' Tableau page for more information. Write code to work with data Popular, free chatbots excel at generating code, and walking users through how to code a program to accomplish a task. This is useful for working with data. Try using a free chatbot,