through some Temple departments. See Temple ITS' Tableau page for more information. Write code to work with data Popular, free chatbots excel at generating code, and walking users through how to code a program to accomplish a task. This is useful for working with data. Try using a free chatbot, like ChatGPT, to generate code for retrieving, analyzing, or visualizing data. Then paste it into your preferred development environment. Several free computational notebook platforms also have AI coding assistance built in, and GitHub Copilot coding assistant is freely available for students and teachers from GitHub Education. See the Writing Code page of this guide for more information and links. Working with qualitative data Machine learning-based tools for automatic coding are not new in qualitative data analysis software, but some existing platforms and newer apps are introducing more generative AI features. Listed below are some that have either a free tier or are available to some Temple users. When analyzing qualitative data from human participants, use caution in considering cloud-based tools. If personal or sensitive data is included, offline platforms may be needed to comply with university research security and IRB requirements for responsible data management. AILYZE Lite An AI tool for qualitative research that has a free tier and attempts to generate summaries, identify themes, count participant viewpoints, and answer questions about qualitative data. Data security info page states that your uploaded data is encrypted and not used to train AI models. See this Qeludra Qualitative Research Community blog post about testing AILYZE for more details. ATLAS.ti ATLAS.ti is not free, but some Temple users have free access to a license through their school or college. The latest software version includes generative AI tools including: AI Coding, AI Intentional Coding, AI Suggested Codes, and AI Summaries. See the ATLAS.ti's AI tools YouTube playlist of helpful video tutorials. ATLAS.ti's AI tools send your data over the internet to OpenAI for processing. Their AI data security page describes their security and privacy measures for this transfer . This may make them inappropriate for use with research data that requires offline or certain levels of secure online storage and management. Sentigem Easy-to-use sentiment analysis tool for English language text. Transcription tools See the Temple Libraries' guide to qualitative data analysis and tools, Transcription page for links to many AI-powered tools for transcribing qualitative data. Related guides Computational Textual Analysis by Alex Wermer-Colan Last Updated Aug 11, 2023 1769 views this year Find Data and Statistics by Olivia Given Castello Last Updated Oct 28, 2024 1498 views this year Qualitative Data Analysis and QDA Tools by Olivia Given Castello Last Updated Dec 20, 2024 10049 views this year << Previous: AI and evidence synthesis Next: Writing code >> Last Updated: Nov 20, 2024 11:41 AM URL: https://guides.temple.edu/ai-research-tools Print Page Login to LibApps Report a broken link or other problem . Tags: AI , AI assistants , AI coding , AI ethics , artificial intelligence , chatbots , ChatGPT , digital literacy , GenAI ,