biases and weaknesses. Moreover, ethical considerations such as copyright and intellectual property must be at the forefront. Application ChatGPT in conducting systematic reviews and meta-analyses Are ChatGPT and large language models “the answer” to bringing us closer to systematic review automation? Artificial intelligence in systematic reviews: promising when appropriately used Harnessing the power of ChatGPT for automating systematic review process: methodology, case study, limitations, and future directions In-depth evaluation of machine learning methods for semi-automating article screening in a systematic review of mechanistic Tools to support the automation of systematic reviews: a scoping review The use of a large language model to create plain language summaries of evidence reviews in healthcare: A feasibility study Using artificial intelligence methods for systematic review in health sciences: A systematic review << Previous: AI Tools for Creating Images Next: How to Cite AI Generated Content >> Last Edited: Dec 18, 2024 12:27 PM URL: https://guides.lib.purdue.edu/ai Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem Subjects: Education , Engineering, Technology, & Computer Science , Faculty Resources , General Research Login to LibApps Report a problem. Follow Us Visit Us Purdue Libraries 504 Mitch Daniels Blvd., West Lafayette, IN 47907-2058 765-494-2900 Partners School of Information Studies Purdue University Press University Copyright Office Resources Directory Careers Intranet Contact Us Purdue University Libraries is a congressionally designated depository for U.S. Government information. Access to the government information collection is open to the public. In accordance with Purdue policies, all persons have equal access to Purdue University’s educational programs, services and activities, without regard to race, religion, color, sex, age, national origin or ancestry, genetic information, marital status, parental status, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, disability or status as a veteran. See Purdue’s Nondiscrimination Policy Statement . If you have any questions or concerns regarding these policies, please contact the Office of the Vice President for Ethics and Compliance at vpec@purdue.edu or 765-494-5830. Copyright © Purdue University. All Rights Reserved. Accessibility | EA/EO University | Integrity Statement | Privacy Policy | Contact Us