free basic search for up to 20 inputs, Pro $10/month unlimited inputs. Literature Review with Litmaps, July 2024 Webinar Top 5 Ways to Use Litmaps Inciteful Basic Info How to Use Inciteful Build a network of academic papers and we'll analyze the network to help you discover the most relevant literature.” Price: free Learn Your Research Field Faster With Inciteful: A New Network Analysis Tool For Research Research Rabbit Basic Info How to Use Research Rabbit A citation-based literature mapping tool. Price: free ResearchRabbit Demo Zotero Integration | ResearchRabbit Scholarcy Basic Info How to Use Scholarcy "An online summarizing tool that generates and converts long articles into summary flashcards." Price: $9.99/month Easily extract the key findings from any paper Generate a comparative analysis and compare research outcomes with Scholarcy's Research Comparison Get a plain-language summary of any paper | Scholarcy's AI-powered article summarizer How Scholarcy helps students and researchers build knowledge from academic text How to chat to your articles to understand articles with more detailhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q94t91y3CwY Summarize any article in your Zotero library in seconds What is Scholarcy? What to expect! | AI-powered article summarizer + research organisation << Previous: Generative AI Tools Next: AI Tools for Systematic Review >> Last Edited: Dec 18, 2024 12:27 PM URL: https://guides.lib.purdue.edu/ai Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem Subjects: Education , Engineering, Technology, & Computer Science , Faculty Resources , General Research Login to LibApps Report a problem. Follow Us Visit Us Purdue Libraries 504 Mitch Daniels Blvd., West Lafayette, IN 47907-2058 765-494-2900 Partners School of Information Studies Purdue University Press University Copyright Office Resources Directory Careers Intranet Contact Us Purdue University Libraries is a congressionally designated depository for U.S. Government information. Access to the government information collection is open to the public. In accordance with Purdue policies, all persons have equal access to Purdue University’s educational programs, services and activities, without regard to race, religion, color, sex, age, national origin or ancestry, genetic information, marital status, parental status, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, disability or status as a veteran. See Purdue’s Nondiscrimination Policy Statement . If you have any questions or concerns regarding these policies, please contact the Office of the Vice President for Ethics and Compliance at vpec@purdue.edu or 765-494-5830. Copyright © Purdue University. All Rights Reserved. Accessibility | EA/EO University | Integrity Statement | Privacy Policy | Contact Us