resources, and assessments Eduaide - AI for Teachers Gradescope Basic Info How to Use Gradescope AI-enhanced platform to streamline the grading process for instructors and provide valuable feedback for students; Price: free for Basic What is Gradescope? Grading a Simple Question Magic School Basic Info How to Use Magic School Use AI to generate educational materials, such as lesson plans, syllabi, vocabulary lists, and rubrics. Price: free MagicSchool AI Magic Minute: Setting Up Recommended Tools What is MagicSchool for Students NotebookLM Basic Info How to Use NotebookLM An AI-powered tool from Google that helps users analyze, summarize, and interact with documents and notes How to Use NotebookLM (Google's New AI Tool) QuestionWell Basic Info How to Use QuestionWell An AI-powered tool that helps teachers create personalized learning materials for their students AI Teaching Magic: Generate Questions Instantly with QuestionWell Quizlet Basic Info How to Use Quizlet A web-based platform that allows users to create digital flashcards, practice quizzes, and play study games to help them learn and memorize information. How to use Quizlet - Official tutorial for new users Twee Basic Info How to Use Twee An AI-powered tool that helps English teachers create personalized lessons for their students Twee: AI-Powered Tools to Create Personalized Lesson Materials Customize Your EFL Lesson Plans for Different Levels << Previous: AI Tools for Systematic Review Next: AI Tools for Writing >> Last Edited: Dec 18, 2024 12:27 PM URL: https://guides.lib.purdue.edu/ai Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem Subjects: Education , Engineering, Technology, & Computer Science , Faculty Resources , General Research Login to LibApps Report a problem. Follow Us Visit Us Purdue Libraries 504 Mitch Daniels Blvd., West Lafayette, IN 47907-2058 765-494-2900 Partners School of Information Studies Purdue University Press University Copyright Office Resources Directory Careers Intranet Contact Us Purdue University Libraries is a congressionally designated depository for U.S. Government information. Access to the government information collection is open to the public. In accordance with Purdue policies, all persons have equal access to Purdue University’s educational programs, services and activities, without regard to race, religion, color, sex, age, national origin or ancestry, genetic information, marital status, parental status, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, disability or status as a veteran. See Purdue’s Nondiscrimination Policy Statement . If you have any questions or concerns regarding these policies, please contact the Office of the Vice President for Ethics and Compliance at vpec@purdue.edu or 765-494-5830. Copyright © Purdue University. All Rights Reserved. Accessibility | EA/EO University | Integrity Statement | Privacy Policy | Contact Us