their data; opt-out options available Access Copilot with Purdue account: Unlike Copilot for Microsoft 365, Copilot with Data Protection does not access M365 files and data. Chat data is not saved, and chat data will not be available in any capacity to Microsoft or other large language models to train their AI tools against. To access Copilot with Data Protection, users will need to sign in with their campus-specific Purdue account. Microsoft Copilot Microsoft Copilot How to Use Microsoft Copilot Copilot is an advanced conversational AI model based on the GPT-4 architecture. It is designed to assist users with a wide range of tasks, from synthesizing information and offering support to completing productivity-related activities. Access to GPT-4 available to Purdue faculty, staff and students Purdue University faculty, staff and students have access to GPT-4 through Microsoft Copilot with Data Protection. Unlike Copilot for Microsoft 365, Copilot with Data Protection does not access M365 files and data. Chat data is not saved, and chat data will not be available in any capacity to Microsoft or other large language models to train their AI tools against. Learn about Copilot prompts Introducing Microsoft 365 Copilot with Outlook, PowerPoint, Excel, and OneNote Perplexity Perplexity How to Use Perplexity Perplexity AI is an innovative AI-powered search engine that combines the capabilities of large language models with real-time web searching to provide comprehensive, up-to-date answers to user queries. Perplexity is available as a web app, mobile app, and Chrome extension. Standard plan: free forever. Pro plan: $20 per month or $200 per year. Purdue community earns free access to Perplexity Pro for one year How does Perplexity work? What is Perplexity Copilot? Introducing Perplexity Pages ChatGPT ChatGPT How to Use ChatGPT ChatGPT is an AI language model by OpenAI that generates human-like text based on input. It's used for conversations, answering questions, and tasks like writing or research across various fields. ChatGPT is available on mobile or desktop. Free version; ChatGPT Plus: $20 per month Introducing GPT-4o Prompt Engineering This guide shares strategies and tactics for getting better results from large language models (sometimes referred to as GPT models) like GPT-4o. What can you do with GPT-4? Google Gemini Google Gemini How to Use Google Gemini Gemini is a large language model developed by Google AI. It is capable of generating human-quality text in response to a wide range of prompts and questions. Gemini Apps FAQ Prompt your way with Gemini << Previous: AI Tools Next: AI Tools for Research >> Last Edited: Dec 18, 2024 12:27 PM URL: https://guides.lib.purdue.edu/ai Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem Subjects: Education , Engineering, Technology, & Computer Science , Faculty Resources , General Research Login to LibApps Report a problem. Follow Us Visit Us Purdue Libraries 504 Mitch Daniels Blvd., West Lafayette, IN 47907-2058 765-494-2900 Partners School of Information Studies Purdue University Press University Copyright Office Resources Directory Careers Intranet Contact Us Purdue University Libraries is a congressionally designated depository for U.S. Government information. Access to the government