Home - Artificial Intelligence (AI) - Research Guides at Purdue University Libraries Skip to Main Content Menu Hours Databases Ask a Librarian My Account Purdue Libraries Research Guides Subject Guides Artificial Intelligence (AI) Home Search this Guide Search Artificial Intelligence (AI) This LibGuide provides an overview of AI knowledge, the applications of AI tools in teaching and learning, and content for the AI research areas. Home AI Tools Toggle Dropdown Generative AI Tools AI Tools for Research AI Tools for Systematic Review AI Tools for Teaching and Learning AI Tools for Writing AI Tools for Creating Videos AI Tools for Creating Images AI in Research How to Cite AI Generated Content Resources for Educators AI in K12 Purdue AI Resources Prompt Design AI and Ethics Copyright Publisher Policies Selected Journals in AI Clinical Assistant Professor Jing Lu she/her/hers Email Me Contact: WALC Q 765-494-1352 Website Subjects: Education , Engineering, Technology, & Computer Science News Purdue community earns free access to Perplexity Pro for one year As part of a back-to-school promotional program, Purdue University faculty, staff and students with a purdue.edu address have free access to Perplexity Pro AI for one year. Users with an active Purdue University email address can sign up and redeem this anytime before December 31, 2024. What is Artificial intelligence (AI) Artificial Intelligence (AI), a term introduced by the esteemed Stanford Professor John McCarthy in 1955, was originally described as "the science and engineering of making intelligent machines." Initially, AI research centered on programming machines to demonstrate certain behaviors, like playing games. However, the current focus is on crafting machines with the capacity to learn, resembling aspects of human learning processes. Andresen, S. L. (2002). John McCarthy: father of AI. IEEE Intelligent Systems, 17(5), 84-85. What is Artificial Intelligence? - UNESCO Key Terms Artificial Intelligence Computer Vision Deep Learning Generative AI Machine Learning Natural Language Process (NLP) Free Online AI Training Course Generative AI for Educators Developed by AI experts at Google in collaboration with MIT RAISE, this course will help you bring AI into educational practice. Purdue AI Programs Artificial Intelligence at Purdue University Artificial Intelligence Micro-Credentials Purdue Artificial Intelligence Major (College of Liberal Arts ) Purdue Artificial Intelligence Major (College of Science) Purdue Online Applied Generative AI Specialization Program Purdue Online Master's in Artificial Intelligence License Info Artificial Intelligence (AI) LibGuide by Jing Lu is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 Next: AI Tools >> Last Updated: Dec 18, 2024 12:27 PM URL: https://guides.lib.purdue.edu/ai Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem Subjects: Education , Engineering, Technology, & Computer Science , Faculty Resources , General Research Login to LibApps Report a problem. Follow Us Visit Us Purdue Libraries 504 Mitch Daniels Blvd., West Lafayette, IN 47907-2058 765-494-2900 Partners School of Information Studies Purdue University Press University Copyright Office Resources Directory Careers Intranet Contact Us Purdue University Libraries is a congressionally designated depository for U.S. Government information. Access to the government information collection is open to the public. In accordance with Purdue policies, all persons