with paid subscriptions available. Perplexity FAQs Consensus Similar to Elicit, Consensus uses LLMs to help researchers find and synthesize answers to research questions, focusing on the scholarly authors' findings and claims in each paper. Semantic Scholar Database Free (20 searches/month); Paid version allows unlimited searching. Consensus FAQs Semantic Scholar Semantic Scholar (which supplies underlying data for many of the other tools on this list) provides brief summaries ('TLDR's) of the main objectives and results of papers. Semantic Scholar Database Semantic Scholar is currently free. Semantic Scholar FAQs Research Rabbit Research Rabbit is a citation-based mapping tool that focuses on the relationships between research works. It uses visualizations to help researchers find similar papers and other researchers in their field. Research Rabbit uses multiple databases, but does not name them (more information can be found on the FAQ page ). Research Rabbit is currently free. Research Rabbit FAQs Connected Papers Like Research Rabbit, Connected Papers focuses on the relationships between research papers to find similar research. You can also use Connected Papers to get a visual overview of an academic field. Semantic Scholar Database Free (5 graphs/month); paid version allows unlimited graphing. Connected Papers - About scite scite has a suite of products that help researchers develop their topics, find papers, and search citations in context (describing whether the article provides supporting or contrasting evidence) Many different sources (an incomplete list can be found on this page ) No. ( Pricing information ) scite FAQs ; how scite works Scholarcy Scholarcy summarizes key points and claims of articles into 'summary cards' that researchers can read, share, and annotate when compiling research on a given topic. Scholarcy only uses research papers uploaded or linked by the researcher themselves . It works as a way to help you read and summarize your research, but is not a search engine. Free (short articles only); Paid version allows articles of any length. Scholarcy FAQs ChatGPT While the AI chatbot ChatGPT is typically thought of as a writing tool, it can be used in the initial idea development phase of research, and can also be of use in finding further sources. (Remember to always look up sources to verify their credibility.) The paid versions of ChatGPT are currently connected to the internet through Bing . The free version was trained on data last updated in September 2021, but that might change in the future. There is a free version available. OpenAI Help Center - ChatGPT Gemini Designed by Google, Gemini (formerly Bard) is an AI-powered chatbot that responds to natural language queries with relevant information. As with ChatGPT, researchers can use Gemini to aid in topic development and initial source discovery. Gemini can currently connect to the Internet. Gemini is currently free to use. (Personal Google account required, does not work with GU accounts.) Gemini FAQ Additional AI Tools Additional AI Tools Georgetown University's Center for New Designs in Learning and Scholarship (CNDLS) offers a list of additional AI tools with a range of different purposes