Marber (Editor) ISBN: 9781032122939 Publication Date: 2023-03-23 This edited collection explores the social impact of Artificial Intelligence over the coming decades, specifically how this emerging technology will transform and disrupt our contemporary institutions. Chapters in this book discuss the history of technological revolutions and consider the anxieties and social challenges of lost occupations, as well as the evolution of new industries overlapping robotics, biotechnology, space exploration, and clean energy. Chapter authors unpack the nature of augmented education, from revamping curriculum and personalizing education, to redesigning workplace learning for an algorithmic era. Ultimately the book discusses policy and planning for an augmented future, arguing that work and learning are undergoing a metamorphosis around creativity and innovation amid a new global era and the race against automating technologies. The Ethics of Artificial Intelligence in Education by Wayne Holmes (Editor); Kaśka Porayska-Pomsta (Editor) ISBN: 9780367349721 Publication Date: 2022-08-11 This book identifies and confronts key ethical issues generated over years of AI research, development, and deployment in learning contexts. Adaptive, automated, and data-driven education systems are increasingly being implemented in universities, schools, and corporate training worldwide, but the ethical consequences of engaging with these technologies remain unexplored. Featuring expert perspectives from inside and outside the AIED scholarly community, this book provides AI researchers, learning scientists, educational technologists, and others with questions, frameworks, guidelines, policies, and regulations to ensure the positive impact of artificial intelligence in learning. Artificial Intelligence for Business Analytics by Felix Weber ISBN: 9783658375980 Publication Date: 2023-03-02 This book provides a concise introduction to the essential aspects of using artificial intelligence methods for business analytics, presents machine learning and the most important algorithms in a comprehensible form using the business analytics technology framework, and shows application scenarios from various industries. In addition, it provides the Business Analytics Model for Artificial Intelligence, a reference procedure model for structuring BA and AI projects in the company. Mind Mapping and Artificial Intelligence by José Maria Guerrero ISBN: 9780128201190 Publication Date: 2022-10-26 The goal of Mind Mapping and Artificial Intelligence is to provide readers with an introduction to mind mapping and artificial intelligence, to the problems of using traditional ways of visualizing complex information and as an introduction to mind mapping automation and its integration into Artificial Intelligence applications such as NLU and others. As more applications of Artificial Intelligence are developed in the near future, the need for the improvement of the visualization of the information generated will increase exponentially. Information overload will soon also happen in AI applications. A Beginner's Guide to Introduce Artificial Intelligence in Teaching and Learning by Muralidhar Kurni; Mujeeb Shaik Mohammed; Srinivasa K G ISBN: 9783031326523 Publication Date: 2023-06-29 This book presents a comprehensive study of how AI improves teaching and learning, from AI-based learning platforms to AI-assisted proctored examinations. This book provides educators, learners, and administrators on how AI makes sense in their everyday practice. Describing the application of AI in ten key aspects, this comprehensive volume prepares educational leaders, designers, researchers, and policymakers to effectively rethink the teaching