proceedings published by the Association for Computing Machinery. O'Reilly for Higher Education This link opens in a new window Ebooks and learning videos on AI, AI programming, prompt engineering, and more. Active GU NetID required for access, including on-campus access. ERIC (via EBSCO) This link opens in a new window Sponsored by the U.S. Department of Education, ERIC, the Education Resource Information Center, provides a rich vein of material relating to education literature and research. Content includes articles, books, papers, reports, and other materials on education topics dating back to 1966. The collection spans a broad range of education-related topics such as teaching, pedagogy, curriculum, bilingual education, counseling, policy, theory, and subjects of instruction, just to name a few. more... less... Unlike other iterations of ERIC--such as ERIC (via Ovid) or ERIC (via ed.gov)--ERIC (via EBSCO) utilizes the EBSCO search platform. Because of this, it can be cross-searched with other related EBSCO databases, such as Education Source, Education Full Text, and Educational Administration Abstracts. Additionally, ERIC (via EBSCO) contains more full-text content than other versions of because it effectively links out to ProQuest Theses and Dissertations when appropriate. Business Source Complete This link opens in a new window Full-text business publications and hundreds of scholarly, peer-reviewed journals covering all aspects of business. Coverage goes as far back as 1886. Additional full text, non-journal content includes financial data, case studies, investment research reports, market research reports, country reports, company profiles, SWOT analysis, books, videos, major reference works, book digests, and conference proceedings. more... less... Covers management, economics, finance, accounting, international business and more. Titles include Harvard Business Review, California Management Review, MIT Sloan Management Review and Administrative Science Quarterly . LinkedIn Learning This link opens in a new window Many video tutorials on AI and its use. Watch a stand-alone video, or a series leading to an online certification. Active GU NetID required for access, including on-campus access. Recent EBooks on AI Artificial Intelligence and Learning Futures by Stefan Popenici ISBN: 9781032208527 Publication Date: 2022-11-30 This book explores the implications of artificial intelligence's adoption in higher education and the challenges to building sustainable instead of dystopic schooling. As AI becomes integral to both pedagogy and profitability in today's colleges and universities, a critical discourse on these systems and algorithms is urgently needed to push back against their potential to enable surveillance, control, and oppression. This book examines the development, risks, and opportunities inherent to AI in education and curriculum design, the problematic ideological assumptions of intelligence and technology, and the evidence base and ethical imagination required to responsibly implement these learning technologies in a way that ensures quality and sustainability. Augmented Education in the Global Age by Daniel Araya (Editor); Peter Marber (Editor) ISBN: 9781032122939 Publication Date: 2023-03-23 This edited collection explores the social impact of Artificial Intelligence over the coming decades, specifically how this emerging technology will transform and disrupt our contemporary institutions. Chapters in this book discuss the history of technological revolutions and consider the anxieties and social challenges