AI Images and Multimedia - Artificial Intelligence Tools for Detection, Research and Writing - Guides at Texas Tech University
Skip to Main Content
Texas Tech University Guides Artificial Intelligence Tools for Detection, Research and Writing AI Images and Multimedia
Search this Guide Search
Artificial Intelligence Tools for Detection, Research and Writing
Generative AI Related Writing and Research Tools Co-Owned and Co-Curated by Brian Quinn and Erin Burns
Home AI Detection AI Tools Texas Tech Resources AI Images and Multimedia AI Photo and Image Generators AI Images Research Citing AI Copyright
Librarian
Brian Quinn
Email Me
Request an Appointment
Contact:   Reference Room Mezzanine M 113 806-834-2148
Subjects:   Anthropology ,  Artificial Intelligence ,  Psychological Sciences ,  Social Work ,  Sociology
STEM Librarian
Erin Burns
she/her/hers
Email Me
Schedule Appointment
Contact:   Library Mezzanine (balcony) Room 112
University Library
Texas Tech University
2802 18th St
Lubbock, TX 79410 806-834-2142
Social:     LinkedIn Page   Twitter Page   Instagram Page   GoodReads Page
Subjects:   Artificial Intelligence ,  Chemical Engineering ,  Civil & Environmental Engineering ,  Computer Science ,  Construction Engineering & Engineering Technology ,  Electrical and Computer Engineering ,  Engineering ,  Industrial Engineering ,  Mechanical Engineering ,  Petroleum Engineering ,  Wind Science and Engineering Research Center
AI Photo and Image Generators
Adobe Firefly This is an AI image generator that is trained on stock images and public domain material so users do not have to be concerned about using copyrighted images. AIart Apps This site features AI art resources, tools and inspiration for designers and prompt engineers. BHuman This cloning tool allows you to create a digital version of yourself that looks and sounds like you. Canva Magic Studio Utilizing text to image and text to video AI technology, describe what you would like to see and this tool will create presentations, videos, or social posts. Quickly reformat any design and use Magic Write to go from prompt to draft in no time. Clipdrop Swap images, use real-time text to image generation, edit, clean and resize images, create image variants and transform sketches into images. Copilot Designer Copilot Designer generates AI images based on your text Craiyon Previously known as DALL-E mini, Craiyon is a free AI image generator that allows you to create images from text prompts. DALL-E2 DALL·E 2 is a new AI system that can create realistic images and art from a description in natural language. DeepAI Generate and edit images and colorize photos using this tool. Deep Dream This tool allows you to create art and images from text prompts. DeepFaceLab DeepFaceLab is a deepfake framework for face-swapping. It provides the necessary tools as well as an easy-to-use way to conduct high-quality face-swapping for deepfake videos. Deepswap Deepswap offers a suite of online face, photo, and video editing tools. Enhance, transform, and beautify your visuals with professional-grade editing features. DreamStudio Similar to DALL-E2, DreamStudio utilizes natural language processing to generate images from prompts and offers users input controls to further customize the image. Fermat AI software designed to help with creativity, brainstorming, conceptual art, filmmaking, and writing, Freepik Freepik's free AI image generator lets you quickly turn your words into images. Glaze Glaze is a system designed to protect human artists by disrupting style mimicry. At a high level, Glaze works by understanding the AI models that are training on human art, and using machine learning algorithms, computing a set of minimal changes to artworks, such that it appears unchanged to human eyes, but appears to AI models like a dramatically different art style. Jasper Jasper is an AI art generator that turns your imagination into unique images and photos in seconds. Midjourney Midjourney neural network produces images from descriptions by learning from a variety of high-resolution images and transforming them into works of art. It creates a realistic image of a given description, and can be used to generate images for specific needs. Mind the Graph This tool can be used for creating scientific figures, illustrations, infographics, posters, and slides. Night Cafe Create images by typing in some text describing what you want to see. OpenArt OpenArt allows you to create and upload images on their platform using state-of-the-art technologies like Stable Diffusion. Photoleap Describe any image you can imagine and watch this AI tool bring it to life in seconds. Pictory Quickly and easily create videos from text such as articles or scripts. Reface This tool allows you to swap faces, restyle videos,  animate photos, and restyle images. Runway This software allows you to create videos and images and to edit and alter them based on words that you type. Scribble Diffusion This tool uses AI to turn a sketch into an image. Stable Diffusion Stable Diffusion is a latent text-to-image diffusion model capable of generating photo-realistic images given any text input. StarryAI Generate art simply by describing what you want to see and this artificial intelligence tool transforms your words into art.
AI Images Research
An A.I. Researcher Takes On Election Deepfakes Oren Etzioni was once an optimist about artificial intelligence. Now, his nonprofit, TrueMedia.org, is offering tools for fighting A.I.-manipulated content. Academic Publishers Turn to AI Software to Catch Bad Scientists Doctoring Data Shady scientists trying to publish bad research may want to think twice as academic publishers are increasingly using AI software to automatically spot signs of data tampering. AI-Enabled Image Fraud in Scientific Publications The rapid development of artificial-intelligence technology has brought to us promising image-generation models that can produce realistic fake images. Here, we show that such advanced generative models threaten the publishing system in academia as they may be used to generate fake scientific images that cannot be effectively identified AI Made These Stunning Images. Here's Why Experts Are Worried It is now possible to create detailed realistic images by typing in some text on a computer. These images can reflect gender and cultural biases of the thousands of images that the AI machine was trained on. AI Software Helps Bust Image Fraud in Academic Papers Proofig and ImageTwin software help detect fudged "Western blot" image data in academic papers. Can We No Longer Believe Anything We See? Human eyes — and even technology — often struggle to identify images created by artificial intelligence. Experts fear that may hasten an erosion of trust in media, in government and in society. ChatGPT Can Now Generate Images, Too OpenAI released a new version of its DALL-E image generator to a small group of testers and incorporated the technology into its popular ChatGPT chatbot. Deep Fake Protein Designed with Artificial Intelligence Will Target Water Pollutants University of Kansas researchers are working to use a machine-learning process to build new proteins designed to detect water pollutants. Google Chatbot’s A.I. Images Put People of Color in Nazi-Era Uniforms Images showing people of color in German military uniforms from World War II that were created with Google’s Gemini chatbot have amplified concerns that artificial intelligence could add to the internet’s already vast pools of misinformation as the technology struggles with issues around race. Google Races to Find a Solution After AI Generator Gemini Misses the Mark Google paused its AI image-generator after Gemini depicted America's founding fathers and Nazi soldiers as Black. How to Use A.I. to Edit and Generate Stunning Photos An A.I.-powered version of Photoshop and the image generator Midjourney can be used to produce unusual creative images. Intel Introduces Real-Time Deepfake Detector As part of Intel's Responsible AI work, the company has productized FakeCatcher, a technology that can detect fake videos with a 96% accuracy rate. Intel’s deepfake detection platform is the world’s first real-time deepfake detector that returns results in milliseconds. The Intellectual Property Implications of AI-Generated Images Copyright considerations span the lifecycle of AI-generated imagery: from the input prompts, to the AI modeling process, to the resulting image. It Takes a Few Dollars and Eight Minutes to Create a Deepfake. And That's Only the Start. Creating fake images, videos, and audio is fast and easy and has resulted in the growth of AI propaganda and scams. The People Onscreen Are Fake. The Disinformation is Real. Deepfake technology is AI software that has the ability to create fictitious people that are difficult to distinguish from actual VIPs or celebrities and make them say or do things that are fabricated. Taylor Swift Fake Posted by Trump Highlights Challenges in AI Misuse Regulation Concerned by the proliferation of AI tools, state and federal legislators have recently launched or pushed for efforts to protect anyone against the misuse of their name, voice, image and likeness in the digital era. This Tool Could Protect Artists From AI Image Generators Artists want to be able to post their work online without having to worry about it being copied by AI image generators. A tool called Glaze helps prevent AI from copying the styles of artists. The Use of Facial Recognition Software and Published Manuscripts to Examine Trends in Surgical Editorial Board Diversity This study uses artificial intelligence software in the form of facial recognition technology to assess the gender racial and ethnic makeup of editorial board members. Using AI to Protect Against AI Image Manipulation “PhotoGuard,” developed by MIT CSAIL researchers, prevents unauthorized image manipulation, safeguarding authenticity in the era of advanced generative models. Using Deepfakes for Experiments in the Social Sciences Current studies focus primarily on the detection and dangers of deepfakes. In contrast, less attention is paid to the potential of this technology for substantive research - particularly as an approach for controlled experimental manipulations in the social sciences. This paper aims to fill this research gap and argue that deepfakes can be a valuable tool for conducting social science experiments. Worried About AI Hijacking Your Voice for a Deepfake? This Tool Could Help New tools could make it easier for the public to detect AI deepfakes — and more difficult for AI systems to create them. ‘It Gave Us Some Way to Fight Back: New Tools Aim to Protect Art and Images from AI's Grasp Some researchers, are fighting back and developing new ways to protect people’s photos and images from AI’s grasp.
<<  Previous:  Texas Tech Resources Next:  Citing AI >>
Last Updated:   Dec 19, 2024 9:40 AM
URL:   https://guides.library.ttu.edu/artificialintelligencetools
Print Page
Login to LibApps
Report a problem
Subjects:  Artificial Intelligence ,  Computer Science ,  Engineering
Tags:  academic integrity ,  academic writing ,  ai ,  ai detection ,  ai empowerment ,  ai evasion ,  artificial intelligence ,  chatbots ,  chatgpt ,  citing ai ,  deepfake ,  detection ,  empowerment ,  evasion ,  generative ai ,  google gemini ,  gptzero ,  microsoft copilot
Ask a Librarian Close Close