AI Tools - Artificial Intelligence Tools for Detection, Research and Writing - Guides at Texas Tech University
Skip to Main Content
Texas Tech University Guides Artificial Intelligence Tools for Detection, Research and Writing AI Tools
Search this Guide Search
Artificial Intelligence Tools for Detection, Research and Writing
Generative AI Related Writing and Research Tools Co-Owned and Co-Curated by Brian Quinn and Erin Burns
Home AI Detection AI Tools Prompts and Places to Start Research and Literature Review Tools Writing Tools Grant Writing Tools Meeting and Video Tools Other Useful Tools Texas Tech Resources AI Images and Multimedia Citing AI Copyright
Librarian
Brian Quinn
Email Me
Request an Appointment
Contact:   Reference Room Mezzanine M 113 806-834-2148
Subjects:   Anthropology ,  Artificial Intelligence ,  Psychological Sciences ,  Social Work ,  Sociology
STEM Librarian
Erin Burns
she/her/hers
Email Me
Schedule Appointment
Contact:   Library Mezzanine (balcony) Room 112
University Library
Texas Tech University
2802 18th St
Lubbock, TX 79410 806-834-2142
Social:     LinkedIn Page   Twitter Page   Instagram Page   GoodReads Page
Subjects:   Artificial Intelligence ,  Chemical Engineering ,  Civil & Environmental Engineering ,  Computer Science ,  Construction Engineering & Engineering Technology ,  Electrical and Computer Engineering ,  Engineering ,  Industrial Engineering ,  Mechanical Engineering ,  Petroleum Engineering ,  Wind Science and Engineering Research Center
Prompts and Places to Start
Generative AI Product Tracker The Generative AI Product Tracker features an extensive, updated list of generative AI products that are either marketed specifically towards postsecondary faculty or students or appear to be actively in use by postsecondary faculty or students for teaching, learning, or research activities. AgentGPT Assemble, configure, and deploy autonomous AI agents in your browser that learn on their own without requiring prompts. Andi Andi is an AI search chatbot that is accurate, ad-free and privacy-focused. It uses a new type of search engine powered by generative AI combined with live data and semantic search technology. Instead of just links, Andi gives you answers - like chatting with a smart friend. Bearly This business focused tool allows you to interact with documents, transcribe audio and video, access the web and transcribe audio and generate meeting minutes and identify key takeaways. ChatGPT For those curious to try ChatGPT, this site provides a link to do so. ChatGPT is trained to interact in a conversational way. The dialogue format makes it possible for ChatGPT to answer followup questions, admit its mistakes, challenge incorrect premises, and reject inappropriate requests. ChatGPT Prompt Genius Discover, share, import, and use the best prompts for ChatGPT & save your chat history locally. Chatsonic Chatsonic is a conversational AI NLP processor that attempts to address the limitations of ChatGPT. Claude This AI chatbot is designed to be more ethical and safer to use than other chatbots and may be more suitable for users who are concerned about chatbots doing objectionable things. Forefront Forefront provides free access to ChatGPT-4, 3.5, as well as other models. It enables you to create and use personas, generate images, and share content with colleagues. FreedomGPT Download this free chatbot to fun locally on your computer to enjoy faster response and the privacy of not having to share your data with big tech companies. Gemini Formerly known as Bard, Google Gemini also offers a paid option called Gemini Advanced. Gemini features multimodality and performance, handling various input formats like text, code, audio, and video. GPT4All This uncensored chatbot is a free-to-use, locally running, privacy-aware chatbot that can be downloaded and trained on your own data without risking your privacy to big tech companies. Myriad: AI Content Prompt Generator This free tool lets you build and fine-tune prompts for writing, rewriting, or analyzing content. It’s optimized for ChatGPT but also works with Copilot and other AIs. Open Assistant This free, independent, uncensored chatbot has fewer guardrails and may respond more freely to questions than more conventional bots. Perplexity This free AI software operates in a manner similar to ChatGPT but it is not as popular so you may not have to wait as long to access it. Phind Phind is an intelligent search engine and assistant. It is connected to the internet and uses generative AI to give you the answer you're looking for in seconds instead of hours. Pickaxe Pickaxe is a platform to building, managing, and deploying AI prompts. It's a hub for prompt engineers and AI pioneers. Poe Poe is a bot aggregator that features access to many of the more popular chatbots and allows users to create their own bots as well. PromptHero This searchable index of prompts allows you to find the right words to get the best results from AI programs like ChatGPT and DALL-E. WebChatGPT Augment your ChatGPT prompts with more current relevant results from the web. This free extension adds relevant web results to your prompts to ChatGPT for more accurate and up-to-date conversations. You.com This tool allows you to search, chat, and create with AI.
Research and Literature Review Tools
2D Search 2Dsearch is a radical alternative to conventional 'advanced search'. Instead of entering Boolean strings into one-dimensional search boxes, queries are formulated by manipulating objects on a two-dimensional canvas. AI Researcher Simply pose a question, and AI Researcher will delve into an extensive library of textbooks, pinpointing the most relevant works and specific passages that directly address your research query. Any Summary Summarize a wide variety of file types including audio and video files or a URL in bullet points, quotes, or a full abstract. AskYourPDF Upload documents into this tool and it will allow you to chat with them and ask questions of them. ASReview Lab This tool helps with conducting systematic reviews by searching for and identifying the most relevant records by screening large amounts of text. Carrot Search This group of text clustering and visualization tools identifies themes in search results and organizes them into thematic groups. ChatPDF This tool is similar to ChatGPT but for PDFs. Upload a PDF and this tool will summarize and answer questions for free. Chat with PDF Summarise your documents, instantly answer questions, and understand research easily with AI. Citation Gecko Based on seed papers that you provide, Citation Gecko provides related papers based on citation networking. CitNetExplorer The tool allows citation networks to be imported directly from the Web of Science database. Citation networks can be explored interactively, for instance by drilling down into a network and by identifying clusters of closely related publications. Connected Papers This visualization tool allows users to submit a paper and it will create a graphic chart of similar papers allowing you to visualize trends. It includes a Prior Works feature to trace earlier works, Derivative Works to find literature reviews, and State of the Art Works to find subsequent papers. Consensus Consensus is a search engine that uses AI to extract and distill findings directly from scientific research. It reads the papers for you and extracts key results. Counterargument Generator An AI tool designed to help generate counterarguments to a statement or assertion. Danswer This tool provides answer with source links to your files and allows you to create personas to improve responses. DataSeer Analyze and extract the data you need from diagrams & datasheets: DataSeer provides automated visualization software that digitizes unstructured data trapped in 2D images and creates a digital twin database with API access. Dimensions AI This database provides free access to over 100 million publications and preprints to help you find exactly what you need, quickly and easily. It also shows the context - with citations, news and social media mentions, and links to funded grants and patents. Docalysis Upload a document or collection of document to chat with them and get answers to your questions  instead of having to read them. docAnalyzer Ask questions and receive precise answers in real time. docAnalyzer.AI offers dynamic, context-aware interactions with one or multiple PDFs, powered by cutting-edge AI research for superior document analysis. Dovetail Accurately auto-transcribe interviews, build your taxonomy and visualize your research. Elicit: The AI Research Assistant Elicit uses language models to help automate research workflows, like parts of a literature review. Elicit can find relevant papers without perfect keyword match, summarize takeaways from the paper specific to your question, and extract key information from the papers. While answering questions with research is the main focus of Elicit, there are also other research tasks that help with brainstorming, summarization, and text classification. EvidenceHunt This tool provides a chat-interface to assist users in locating clinical and biomedical evidence. ExperAI The tool enables users to find experts in various fields, such as writing, engineering, psychology, and medicine, among others.
Users can connect with experts to start a random chat or select a popular expert from the list. Explainpaper Characterizing itself as "a better way to read papers" Explainpaper allows users to upload a paper, highlight confusing text, and Explalnpaper will provide an explanation. Genei This tools provides keyword extraction and definition, semantic and query-based search within and across documents, summarization of entire documents and sections within them. Hypothesis Maker Hypothesis Maker is an AI-driven tool that generates a hypothesis based on your research question. Powered by advanced AI models like GPT-4 and ChatGPT, this tool can help streamline your research process and enhance your scientific studies. Inciteful Inciteful consists of two different tools: Paper Discovery builds a network of papers from citations, uses network analysis algorithms to analyze the network, and gives you the information you need to quickly get up to speed on that topic. Literature Connector is intended for interdisciplinary scholars trying to bridge two domains, and allows you to enter two papers to give you an interactive visualization showing you how they are connected by the literature. Iris.ai A comprehensive platform for research processing: smart search and a wide range of smart filters, reading list analysis, auto-generated summaries, autonomous extraction and systematizing of data. Keenious Keenious analyzes articles that you supply and searches for similar articles to provide you with related research. Laser.ai Designed to reduce literature reviews and systematic reviews time by half. Lateral Lateral allows you to import papers relevant to your topic and then finds similar ones that match those. Litmaps Litmaps uses citation searching to reveal new papers on a topic and then creates a visual map of the literature to illustrate how the studies relate to one another. MirrorThink Unleash the power of AI for science and find answers to all your burning questions about scientific methods, research, papers and more. Notion Upload content and this AI tool will allow you to ask questions, create summaries, drafts and tables. Open Knowledge Maps Based on the search term you provide, Open Knowledge Maps creates a visualization in the form of a map that provides an overview of the topic based on the most relevant papers that it finds. OpenRead OpenRead features a Paper Q&A tool that allows users to quickly answer any questions they have about a paper, a Paper Espresso feature that helps to generate literature reviews quickly, an AI-powered research tool that accelerates the reading process, a low code paper editor, and a powerful notes system with backlinks and outgoing links for increased efficiency. Paper Brain Search for complex academic white papers. This tool will then help simplify the papers by allowing you to ask questions in natural language about the papers. Paper Digest Paper Digest is an AI tool that distills a research paper into a three-minute read, allowing readers to quickly grasp the core ideas of a paper. Paperguide AI Research Assistant, Reference Manager and Writing Assistant that help you understand papers, manage references, annotate/take notes, and improve your writing. PaperQA2 PaperQA2 is an agent optimized for retrieving and summarizing information from the scientific literature. PaperQA2 has access to a variety of tools that allow it to find papers, extract useful information from those papers, explore the citation graph, and formulate answers. Paper Wizard A tool for writing papers that includes source embedding and citations. PDF.ai Ask questions, extract information, and summarize documents that you upload. Not just articles and books, but legal agreements, financial reports, user manuals. Petal With Petal, you can narrow down from hundreds of papers to a few using any criteria you define through the AI. Identify measured outcomes, trace driving factors and influencers, assess potential weaknesses, and compare similar studies using our unique multi-document AI table. Prophy Find, follow, share, and collect the most relevant articles for you, find referees, construct editorial boards or panels and create peer performance comparisons across disciplines and career stages. PUREsuggest PUREsuggest is a scientific literature search tool that, starting from some seed papers, suggests scientific publications through citations/references. R Discovery R Discovery provides readers with the top 3 papers to read every day without having to search for them day-in day-out. It presents the key highlights of the papers upfront for you so that you only spend time reading full texts where it’s absolutely worth it. Reduct For qualitative researchers, Reduct is a collaborative transcript-based video and audio platform for reviewing, searching, highlighting, and editing content of people talking, at scale. ResearchAlde ResearchAIde is the ideal tool for students, researchers, and business professionals seeking to extract and synthesize relevant information from research papers quickly and efficiently, saving time. ResearchBuddy Research Buddy is an AI-powered tool that generates comprehensive Academic Literature Reviews with Harvard Referencing in just a matter of minutes. This tool is designed to simplify the process of literature review, making it quick and easy. Research Rabbit ResearchRabbit is an innovative “citation-based literature mapping tool" that allows you to supply a seed paper and find more papers relevant to the topic of interest. ScholarAI ScholarAI is a ChatGPT Plugin that helps connect users to peer-reviewed open access research articles. Scholarcy Scholarcy gives you more than just an abstract. It condenses papers into referenced summaries, highlights key claims and statistics and extracts tables and images. It helps you to filter out the noise, identify the most relevant papers faster, and easily jump between the sections in an article that are most important to your work. ScholarGPT Enhance research with 200M+ resources and built-in critical reading skills. Access Google Scholar, PubMed, JSTOR, Arxiv, and more via this custom version of ChatGPT. Scispace This AI program decodes research papers to help you read and understand scientific literature faster. Highlight confusing text, math, and tables to get a simple explanation. Ask follow-up questions and get instant answers. SciSpace Literature Review is also worth trying: https://typeset.io/search Scispace Copilot This AI tool summarizes scientific papers to reduce time spent reading. SciSummary Send an email or upload an article to our dashboard with text, a link, or even attach a PDF and within minutes you'll receive a summary in your inbox. The perfect tool for busy scientists, students and enthusiasts who don't have time to read through long and complicated scientific articles. scite Discover supporting and contrasting evidence for papers. Upload a PDF to check if the references have been supported, contrasted, retracted, received an expression of concern, etc. Semantic Scholar An academic search engine that utilizes artificial intelligence methods to provide highly relevant results and novel tools to filter them with ease. Smmry Summarize PDF or TXT documents by uploading a file or summarize online articles or webpages by pasting the URL. Snowball Snowball allows users to quickly find and filter through papers using the snowballing method. Start with a core collection of papers, and find more by going through their citations and references. Sourcely Upload an essay and Sourcely will provide reputable, credible academic references, summarize them, and extract key insights from them. TLDR This Upload text and this tool will summarize it for you, extract the citation, and estimate the reading time. Undermind Undermind features an AI assistant that carefully reads hundreds of academic papers for you, finding exactly what you need, no matter how complex. VOSviewer VOSviewer is a software tool for constructing and visualizing bibliometric networks. These networks may for instance include journals, researchers, or individual publications, and they can be constructed based on citation, bibliographic coupling, co-citation, or co-authorship relations. VOSviewer also offers text mining functionality that can be used to construct and visualize co-occurrence networks of important terms extracted from a body of scientific literature. Zeta Alpha Use state-of-the-art Neural Search and Generative AI to improve how you and your team discover, organize and share internal knowledge.
Writing Tools
AI-Writer This subscription-based tool boasts the ability to generate article drafts just from a headline, cite verifiable sources, and draw upon up to date content. Article Forge Using advanced artificial intelligence and deep learning, Article Forge writes entire 1,500+ word articles automatically. Humata Summarize lengthy papers and turn complex technical papers into simply explained summaries. Automatically create new writing based on your file. Jenni AI This research and writing tool automatically completes sentences, creates tone and style, cites in multiple styles, paraphrases and rewrites. PaperPal This tool offers real-time, subject specific language suggestions to help you write better and faster. QuillBot This tool allows you to paraphrase text, check grammar, and get explanations to learn from mistakes and improve your writing. Sudowrite According to their website, Sudowrite is the non-judgmental,always-there-to-read-one-more-draft, never-runs-out-of-ideas-even-at-3am, AI writing partner you always wanted. Textero Get your papers and research done in minutes with Textero AI essay generator. Wordtune Spices Unlike ChatGPT, Wordtune Spices can cite its sources and utilize the most recent data from the internet. Writefull Automated paraphraser, abstract generator, title generator and copyeditor that has been trained on millions of scholarly journal articles. Writesonic An article writing tool that features paraphrasing, text expansion, and single-click summarization. Yomu This writing tool aids in crafting academic papers by generating suggestions as you type, helping you overcome writer's block.
Grant Writing Tools
Grantable Upload existing grant proposals and writing to train the AI. Input a question or prompt from an RFP. Let Grantable AI draft answers for you to approve using your previous answers. Granted ai Granted's specialized AI is trained on successful proposals that have generated billions of dollars. Instantly generate high-quality drafts for a wide range of grant proposals, appeals, letters of support, articles, and more, just by entering simple information about your project.
Meeting and Video Tools
Clipto Clipto transcribes your audio, video, or YouTube files to text swiftly and accurately. This app is essential for podcasts, corporate meetings, interviews, class recordings, and much more. It supports over 99 languages with 99% accuracy. Deep Motion Animate 3D, AI motion capture from any video, and SayMotion, harnessing the power of Generative AI to seamlessly transform text into dynamic animations. Fathom Fathom records, transcribes, highlights, and summarizes your meetings so you can focus on the conversation Fireflies.ai Fireflies.ai helps your research team transcribe, summarize, search, and analyze voice conversations Invideo Enter a text prompt and invideo generates a script, creates scenes, adds voiceovers, & tweaks the video at your command. Lucas AI Video Creator Turn any text prompt into a professional video, including interactive video, without scripts or tech skills. A built-in editor makes it easy to make changes. Luman5 This tool enables users to turn text or blogs into video. Machine Translation This tool is designed to analyze, compare, and recommend the best machine translation for any given text and language pair. It relies on the formidable abilities of GPT-4 to determine the strengths and weaknesses of each MT engine translation output, which in turn provides a tailored translation experience for each user. Otter.ai This AI meeting assistant records audio, writes notes, automatically captures slides, and generates summaries. Runway Runway AI is a platform that combines machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI) to streamline the process of generating and editing images and videos. Sora Sora is a text-to-video model that can generate videos up to a minute long while maintaining visual quality and adherence to the user’s prompt. Summarize.tech Get a summary of any long YouTube video, like a lecture, live event or a government meeting. Powered by ChatGPT. Synthesia This video generation platform allows you to turn text into video. Tome Type a prompt into the command bar and let Tome generate a presentation, outline, or story for you—complete with text and images. Whisper AI Whisper is a free speech-to-text tool that allows you to transcribe audio into text.
Other Useful Tools
152 Best AI Tools of 2023 The author describes the pros and cons and pricing of dozens of useful AI tools. AIPRM’s Ultimate Generative AI Glossary Helpful for understanding AI-related jargon and technospeak. AI Tools Club Find useful artificial intelligence (AI) tools. The AI Tools Club expert team reviews and provides insights into some of the most cutting-edge AI tools available. AlphaCode AlphaCode uses transformer-based language models to generate code at an unprecedented scale, and then smartly filters to a small set of promising programs. Audemic This tool allows you to upload an article and have it read to you as an audio track. Character.ai Build personalized AI characters and tutors that you can engage with that can be helpful for a variety of tasks such as teacher, mentor, therapist, coach, librarian. Chatbot Arena This free tool offers a side-by-side interface that allows users to easily compare how different chatbots respond to the same prompt. ChatGPT Code Interpreter Code interpreter allows ChatGPT subscribers to analyze data, create charts, solve math problems and edit files, among other uses. It also supports uploading and downloading files, which was not possible in ChatGPT before. Access limited to ChatGPT subscribers. Futurepedia AI Tools Directory This site contains a collection of AI tools and claims to be "the largest AI tool directory, updated daily." Future Tools This site collects and organizes AI tools into categories that you can select to see what tools are available. GitHub Copilot GitHub Copilot uses the OpenAI Codex to suggest code and entire functions in real-time, right from your editor. Julius AI Upload data to query and create visualizations, perform modeling and predictive forecasting, and generate polished analyses and summaries. Kudos Kudos uses AI-generated, easy-to-understand summaries that you post on their site to expose your research to a wider audience. Mainstay This AI system features automated two-way chatbot messaging that sends students timely reminders of course requirements, customized feedback on progress, weekly digests with due dates, encouragement and support during exam time and quizzes offering practice exams. Powerdrill Upload data sets and ask questions of them and create personal AI assistants without using code. QuestionWell Just input some reading or a video, and the AI will write essential questions, learning outcomes, and aligned multiple choice questions, which you can then export to your favorite tool. Quivr Quivr is a cloud-based open source platform that allows you to upload and store papers and pose queries like "what are the gaps in this paper?" Sentient Syllabus A newsletter addressing issues related to the growth of artificial intelligence in the academy. Teach Anything This tool allows you to write your question, select language, select difficulty and receive an answer based on your selections. There's An AI For That This is an AI aggregator site that features thousands of AI tools and a searchable index. TutorAI Type a topic in the search box and it will create a course for you. Zapier Zapier allows you to automate your workflow by describing what you want using text rather than code.
<<  Previous:  AI Detection Next:  Texas Tech Resources >>
Last Updated:   Dec 19, 2024 9:40 AM
URL:   https://guides.library.ttu.edu/artificialintelligencetools
Print Page
Login to LibApps
Report a problem
Subjects:  Artificial Intelligence ,  Computer Science ,  Engineering
Tags:  academic integrity ,  academic writing ,  ai ,  ai detection ,  ai empowerment ,  ai evasion ,  artificial intelligence ,  chatbots ,  chatgpt ,  citing ai ,  deepfake ,  detection ,  empowerment ,  evasion ,  generative ai ,  google gemini ,  gptzero ,  microsoft copilot
Ask a Librarian Close Close