Texas Tech Resources - Artificial Intelligence Tools for Detection, Research and Writing - Guides at Texas Tech University
Skip to Main Content
Texas Tech University Guides Artificial Intelligence Tools for Detection, Research and Writing Texas Tech Resources
Search this Guide Search
Artificial Intelligence Tools for Detection, Research and Writing
Generative AI Related Writing and Research Tools Co-Owned and Co-Curated by Brian Quinn and Erin Burns
Home AI Detection AI Tools Texas Tech Resources TTU Resources AI Images and Multimedia Citing AI Copyright
TTU Resources
TTU TLPDC Resources on ChatGPT This site includes Questions to Ask Yourself About ChatGPT from Suzanne Tapp, General ChatGPT Resources, AI Plagiarism Detection,
Sample Syllabi Statements, Sample Rubrics & Assessment Tools, and Sample Assignments Incorporating ChatGPT.
Academic Integrity and Artificial Intelligence  (Offered freely by Jill Hogan,  Higher Ed Discussions of AI Writing Facebook Group )
Course Policies on Using AI Tools Guidelines shared from Autumn Caines (University of Michigan/College Unbound) and Lance Eaton (College Unbound)
Honor code for quizzes and tests (Found on Reddit, r/ChatGPT, January 17, 2023):
"I, _________________, used only my notes and the readings for this open-note quiz. I did not consult other students' notes, the Internet, ChatGPT or any AI chatbot that could generate answers. I don't need to do that!"
How to communicate about ChatGPT with your class:
Consider an approach shared by Dr. Nicole Morelock in a recent TLPDC session, and recognize that if your students are considering use of ChatGPT or contemplating compromising their academic integrity in other ways, they may be feeling considerable pressure. Is there anything that you can do to ease this pressure? Would encouraging them to come to you to share their struggles and discuss possible interventions before making a decision like this be helpful? In particular, if students seem to be using ChatGPT to answer reflection style prompts that incorporate their experiences, helping them to see that you want to gauge their understanding and insight and not information generated by an AI resource.  Only when a written reflection is truly a student's work can an instructor gauge the learning that is taking place and what changes may need to be made.
Sample statement shared by Chrissann Sparks Ruehle (with permission for others to use) on  Higher Ed Discussions of AI Writing Facebook Group  on 1/6/2023:
“Since writing, analytical, and critical thinking skills are part of the learning outcomes of this course, all writing assignments should be prepared by the student. Developing strong competencies in this area will prepare you for a competitive workplace. Therefore, AI-generated submissions are not permitted and will be treated as plagiarism.”
Sample statement shared by Laura Dumin  (Higher Ed Discussions of AI Writing Facebook Group):
"Welcome to the wide world of new programs that can “do your writing for you”. Why did I put that into quotes? Because some of the writing is problematic and a lot of it is downright bland. Having said that, I accept that this is yet another way to get around doing your own work, if that is the choice being made. But maybe it can be used for good, and that is where we are right now. In the “what if” and “how to” zone. We might have assignments that use or integrate AI writing this semester. There might be other places where it simply isn't appropriate for the assignment. Perhaps AI can be a helpful tool, and that is part of what we can explore this semester. With that in mind, if you are found to have used AI writing programs in a place where they are not explicitly allowed on an assignment, you will receive a ‘0' grade, be reported for academic dishonesty, and will not have the chance to re-do or replace that assignment. I'd prefer that we see this as a chance to learn and adapt rather than just another way to cheat, so we'll approach it from that angle and see where we end up. I look forward to entering this newish universe with you."
<<  Previous:  AI Tools Next:  AI Images and Multimedia >>
Last Updated:   Dec 19, 2024 9:40 AM
URL:   https://guides.library.ttu.edu/artificialintelligencetools
Print Page
Login to LibApps
Report a problem
Subjects:  Artificial Intelligence ,  Computer Science ,  Engineering
Tags:  academic integrity ,  academic writing ,  ai ,  ai detection ,  ai empowerment ,  ai evasion ,  artificial intelligence ,  chatbots ,  chatgpt ,  citing ai ,  deepfake ,  detection ,  empowerment ,  evasion ,  generative ai ,  google gemini ,  gptzero ,  microsoft copilot
Ask a Librarian