AI Images and Multimedia - Artificial Intelligence Tools for Detection, Research and Writing - Guides at Texas Tech University Skip to Main Content Texas Tech University Guides Artificial Intelligence Tools for Detection, Research and Writing AI Images and Multimedia Search this Guide Search Artificial Intelligence Tools for Detection, Research and Writing Generative AI Related Writing and Research Tools Co-Owned and Co-Curated by Brian Quinn and Erin Burns Home AI Detection AI Tools Texas Tech Resources AI Images and Multimedia AI Photo and Image Generators AI Images Research Citing AI Copyright Librarian Brian Quinn Email Me Request an Appointment Contact: Reference Room Mezzanine M 113 806-834-2148 Subjects: Anthropology , Artificial Intelligence , Psychological Sciences , Social Work , Sociology STEM Librarian Erin Burns she/her/hers Email Me Schedule Appointment Contact: Library Mezzanine (balcony) Room 112 University Library Texas Tech University 2802 18th St Lubbock, TX 79410 806-834-2142 Social: LinkedIn Page Twitter Page Instagram Page GoodReads Page Subjects: Artificial Intelligence , Chemical Engineering , Civil & Environmental Engineering , Computer Science , Construction Engineering & Engineering Technology , Electrical and Computer Engineering , Engineering , Industrial Engineering , Mechanical Engineering , Petroleum Engineering , Wind Science and Engineering Research Center AI Photo and Image Generators Adobe Firefly This is an AI image generator that is trained on stock images and public domain material so users do not have to be concerned about using copyrighted images. AIart Apps This site features AI art resources, tools and inspiration for designers and prompt engineers. BHuman This cloning tool allows you to create a digital version of yourself that looks and sounds like you. Canva Magic Studio Utilizing text to image and text to video AI technology, describe what you would like to see and this tool will create presentations, videos, or social posts. Quickly reformat any design and use Magic Write to go from prompt to draft in no time. Clipdrop Swap images, use real-time text to image generation, edit, clean and resize images, create image variants and transform sketches into images. Copilot Designer Copilot Designer generates AI images based on your text Craiyon Previously known as DALL-E mini, Craiyon is a free AI image generator that allows you to create images from text prompts. DALL-E2 DALL·E 2 is a new AI system that can create realistic images and art from a description in natural language. DeepAI Generate and edit images and colorize photos using this tool. Deep Dream This tool allows you to create art and images from text prompts. DeepFaceLab DeepFaceLab is a deepfake framework for face-swapping. It provides the necessary tools as well as an easy-to-use way to conduct high-quality face-swapping for deepfake videos. Deepswap Deepswap offers a suite of online face, photo, and video editing tools. Enhance, transform, and beautify your visuals with professional-grade editing features. DreamStudio Similar to DALL-E2, DreamStudio utilizes natural language processing to generate images from prompts and offers users input controls to further customize the image. Fermat AI software designed to help with creativity, brainstorming, conceptual art, filmmaking,