that are difficult to distinguish from actual VIPs or celebrities and make them say or do things that are fabricated. Taylor Swift Fake Posted by Trump Highlights Challenges in AI Misuse Regulation Concerned by the proliferation of AI tools, state and federal legislators have recently launched or pushed for efforts to protect anyone against the misuse of their name, voice, image and likeness in the digital era. This Tool Could Protect Artists From AI Image Generators Artists want to be able to post their work online without having to worry about it being copied by AI image generators. A tool called Glaze helps prevent AI from copying the styles of artists. The Use of Facial Recognition Software and Published Manuscripts to Examine Trends in Surgical Editorial Board Diversity This study uses artificial intelligence software in the form of facial recognition technology to assess the gender racial and ethnic makeup of editorial board members. Using AI to Protect Against AI Image Manipulation “PhotoGuard,” developed by MIT CSAIL researchers, prevents unauthorized image manipulation, safeguarding authenticity in the era of advanced generative models. Using Deepfakes for Experiments in the Social Sciences Current studies focus primarily on the detection and dangers of deepfakes. In contrast, less attention is paid to the potential of this technology for substantive research - particularly as an approach for controlled experimental manipulations in the social sciences. This paper aims to fill this research gap and argue that deepfakes can be a valuable tool for conducting social science experiments. Worried About AI Hijacking Your Voice for a Deepfake? This Tool Could Help New tools could make it easier for the public to detect AI deepfakes — and more difficult for AI systems to create them. ‘It Gave Us Some Way to Fight Back: New Tools Aim to Protect Art and Images from AI's Grasp Some researchers, are fighting back and developing new ways to protect people’s photos and images from AI’s grasp. << Previous: Texas Tech Resources Next: Citing AI >> Last Updated: Dec 19, 2024 9:40 AM URL: https://guides.library.ttu.edu/artificialintelligencetools Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem Subjects: Artificial Intelligence , Computer Science , Engineering Tags: academic integrity , academic writing , ai , ai detection , ai empowerment , ai evasion , artificial intelligence , chatbots , chatgpt , citing ai , deepfake , detection , empowerment , evasion , generative ai , google gemini , gptzero , microsoft copilot Ask a Librarian Close Close