and video editing tools. Enhance, transform, and beautify your visuals with professional-grade editing features. DreamStudio Similar to DALL-E2, DreamStudio utilizes natural language processing to generate images from prompts and offers users input controls to further customize the image. Fermat AI software designed to help with creativity, brainstorming, conceptual art, filmmaking, and writing, Freepik Freepik's free AI image generator lets you quickly turn your words into images. Glaze Glaze is a system designed to protect human artists by disrupting style mimicry. At a high level, Glaze works by understanding the AI models that are training on human art, and using machine learning algorithms, computing a set of minimal changes to artworks, such that it appears unchanged to human eyes, but appears to AI models like a dramatically different art style. Jasper Jasper is an AI art generator that turns your imagination into unique images and photos in seconds. Midjourney Midjourney neural network produces images from descriptions by learning from a variety of high-resolution images and transforming them into works of art. It creates a realistic image of a given description, and can be used to generate images for specific needs. Mind the Graph This tool can be used for creating scientific figures, illustrations, infographics, posters, and slides. Night Cafe Create images by typing in some text describing what you want to see. OpenArt OpenArt allows you to create and upload images on their platform using state-of-the-art technologies like Stable Diffusion. Photoleap Describe any image you can imagine and watch this AI tool bring it to life in seconds. Pictory Quickly and easily create videos from text such as articles or scripts. Reface This tool allows you to swap faces, restyle videos, animate photos, and restyle images. Runway This software allows you to create videos and images and to edit and alter them based on words that you type. Scribble Diffusion This tool uses AI to turn a sketch into an image. Stable Diffusion Stable Diffusion is a latent text-to-image diffusion model capable of generating photo-realistic images given any text input. StarryAI Generate art simply by describing what you want to see and this artificial intelligence tool transforms your words into art. AI Images Research An A.I. Researcher Takes On Election Deepfakes Oren Etzioni was once an optimist about artificial intelligence. Now, his nonprofit, TrueMedia.org, is offering tools for fighting A.I.-manipulated content. Academic Publishers Turn to AI Software to Catch Bad Scientists Doctoring Data Shady scientists trying to publish bad research may want to think twice as academic publishers are increasingly using AI software to automatically spot signs of data tampering. AI-Enabled Image Fraud in Scientific Publications The rapid development of artificial-intelligence technology has brought to us promising image-generation models that can produce realistic fake images. Here, we show that such advanced generative models threaten the publishing system in academia as they may be used to generate fake scientific images that cannot be effectively identified AI Made These Stunning Images. Here's Why Experts Are Worried It is now possible to create detailed