produce realistic fake images. Here, we show that such advanced generative models threaten the publishing system in academia as they may be used to generate fake scientific images that cannot be effectively identified AI Made These Stunning Images. Here's Why Experts Are Worried It is now possible to create detailed realistic images by typing in some text on a computer. These images can reflect gender and cultural biases of the thousands of images that the AI machine was trained on. AI Software Helps Bust Image Fraud in Academic Papers Proofig and ImageTwin software help detect fudged "Western blot" image data in academic papers. Can We No Longer Believe Anything We See? Human eyes — and even technology — often struggle to identify images created by artificial intelligence. Experts fear that may hasten an erosion of trust in media, in government and in society. ChatGPT Can Now Generate Images, Too OpenAI released a new version of its DALL-E image generator to a small group of testers and incorporated the technology into its popular ChatGPT chatbot. Deep Fake Protein Designed with Artificial Intelligence Will Target Water Pollutants University of Kansas researchers are working to use a machine-learning process to build new proteins designed to detect water pollutants. Google Chatbot’s A.I. Images Put People of Color in Nazi-Era Uniforms Images showing people of color in German military uniforms from World War II that were created with Google’s Gemini chatbot have amplified concerns that artificial intelligence could add to the internet’s already vast pools of misinformation as the technology struggles with issues around race. Google Races to Find a Solution After AI Generator Gemini Misses the Mark Google paused its AI image-generator after Gemini depicted America's founding fathers and Nazi soldiers as Black. How to Use A.I. to Edit and Generate Stunning Photos An A.I.-powered version of Photoshop and the image generator Midjourney can be used to produce unusual creative images. Intel Introduces Real-Time Deepfake Detector As part of Intel's Responsible AI work, the company has productized FakeCatcher, a technology that can detect fake videos with a 96% accuracy rate. Intel’s deepfake detection platform is the world’s first real-time deepfake detector that returns results in milliseconds. The Intellectual Property Implications of AI-Generated Images Copyright considerations span the lifecycle of AI-generated imagery: from the input prompts, to the AI modeling process, to the resulting image. It Takes a Few Dollars and Eight Minutes to Create a Deepfake. And That's Only the Start. Creating fake images, videos, and audio is fast and easy and has resulted in the growth of AI propaganda and scams. The People Onscreen Are Fake. The Disinformation is Real. Deepfake technology is AI software that has the ability to create fictitious people that are difficult to distinguish from actual VIPs or celebrities and make them say or do things that are fabricated. Taylor Swift Fake Posted by Trump Highlights Challenges in AI Misuse Regulation Concerned by the proliferation of AI tools, state and federal legislators have recently launched or pushed for efforts