or tech skills. A built-in editor makes it easy to make changes. Luman5 This tool enables users to turn text or blogs into video. Machine Translation This tool is designed to analyze, compare, and recommend the best machine translation for any given text and language pair. It relies on the formidable abilities of GPT-4 to determine the strengths and weaknesses of each MT engine translation output, which in turn provides a tailored translation experience for each user. Otter.ai This AI meeting assistant records audio, writes notes, automatically captures slides, and generates summaries. Runway Runway AI is a platform that combines machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI) to streamline the process of generating and editing images and videos. Sora Sora is a text-to-video model that can generate videos up to a minute long while maintaining visual quality and adherence to the user’s prompt. Summarize.tech Get a summary of any long YouTube video, like a lecture, live event or a government meeting. Powered by ChatGPT. Synthesia This video generation platform allows you to turn text into video. Tome Type a prompt into the command bar and let Tome generate a presentation, outline, or story for you—complete with text and images. Whisper AI Whisper is a free speech-to-text tool that allows you to transcribe audio into text. Other Useful Tools 152 Best AI Tools of 2023 The author describes the pros and cons and pricing of dozens of useful AI tools. AIPRM’s Ultimate Generative AI Glossary Helpful for understanding AI-related jargon and technospeak. AI Tools Club Find useful artificial intelligence (AI) tools. The AI Tools Club expert team reviews and provides insights into some of the most cutting-edge AI tools available. AlphaCode AlphaCode uses transformer-based language models to generate code at an unprecedented scale, and then smartly filters to a small set of promising programs. Audemic This tool allows you to upload an article and have it read to you as an audio track. Character.ai Build personalized AI characters and tutors that you can engage with that can be helpful for a variety of tasks such as teacher, mentor, therapist, coach, librarian. Chatbot Arena This free tool offers a side-by-side interface that allows users to easily compare how different chatbots respond to the same prompt. ChatGPT Code Interpreter Code interpreter allows ChatGPT subscribers to analyze data, create charts, solve math problems and edit files, among other uses. It also supports uploading and downloading files, which was not possible in ChatGPT before. Access limited to ChatGPT subscribers. Futurepedia AI Tools Directory This site contains a collection of AI tools and claims to be "the largest AI tool directory, updated daily." Future Tools This site collects and organizes AI tools into categories that you can select to see what tools are available. GitHub Copilot GitHub Copilot uses the OpenAI Codex to suggest code and entire functions in real-time, right from your editor. Julius AI Upload data to query and create visualizations, perform modeling and predictive forecasting, and generate polished analyses and summaries. Kudos Kudos uses