select to see what tools are available. GitHub Copilot GitHub Copilot uses the OpenAI Codex to suggest code and entire functions in real-time, right from your editor. Julius AI Upload data to query and create visualizations, perform modeling and predictive forecasting, and generate polished analyses and summaries. Kudos Kudos uses AI-generated, easy-to-understand summaries that you post on their site to expose your research to a wider audience. Mainstay This AI system features automated two-way chatbot messaging that sends students timely reminders of course requirements, customized feedback on progress, weekly digests with due dates, encouragement and support during exam time and quizzes offering practice exams. Powerdrill Upload data sets and ask questions of them and create personal AI assistants without using code. QuestionWell Just input some reading or a video, and the AI will write essential questions, learning outcomes, and aligned multiple choice questions, which you can then export to your favorite tool. Quivr Quivr is a cloud-based open source platform that allows you to upload and store papers and pose queries like "what are the gaps in this paper?" Sentient Syllabus A newsletter addressing issues related to the growth of artificial intelligence in the academy. Teach Anything This tool allows you to write your question, select language, select difficulty and receive an answer based on your selections. There's An AI For That This is an AI aggregator site that features thousands of AI tools and a searchable index. TutorAI Type a topic in the search box and it will create a course for you. Zapier Zapier allows you to automate your workflow by describing what you want using text rather than code. << Previous: AI Detection Next: Texas Tech Resources >> Last Updated: Dec 19, 2024 9:40 AM URL: https://guides.library.ttu.edu/artificialintelligencetools Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem Subjects: Artificial Intelligence , Computer Science , Engineering Tags: academic integrity , academic writing , ai , ai detection , ai empowerment , ai evasion , artificial intelligence , chatbots , chatgpt , citing ai , deepfake , detection , empowerment , evasion , generative ai , google gemini , gptzero , microsoft copilot Ask a Librarian Close Close