or a full abstract. AskYourPDF Upload documents into this tool and it will allow you to chat with them and ask questions of them. ASReview Lab This tool helps with conducting systematic reviews by searching for and identifying the most relevant records by screening large amounts of text. Carrot Search This group of text clustering and visualization tools identifies themes in search results and organizes them into thematic groups. ChatPDF This tool is similar to ChatGPT but for PDFs. Upload a PDF and this tool will summarize and answer questions for free. Chat with PDF Summarise your documents, instantly answer questions, and understand research easily with AI. Citation Gecko Based on seed papers that you provide, Citation Gecko provides related papers based on citation networking. CitNetExplorer The tool allows citation networks to be imported directly from the Web of Science database. Citation networks can be explored interactively, for instance by drilling down into a network and by identifying clusters of closely related publications. Connected Papers This visualization tool allows users to submit a paper and it will create a graphic chart of similar papers allowing you to visualize trends. It includes a Prior Works feature to trace earlier works, Derivative Works to find literature reviews, and State of the Art Works to find subsequent papers. Consensus Consensus is a search engine that uses AI to extract and distill findings directly from scientific research. It reads the papers for you and extracts key results. Counterargument Generator An AI tool designed to help generate counterarguments to a statement or assertion. Danswer This tool provides answer with source links to your files and allows you to create personas to improve responses. DataSeer Analyze and extract the data you need from diagrams & datasheets: DataSeer provides automated visualization software that digitizes unstructured data trapped in 2D images and creates a digital twin database with API access. Dimensions AI This database provides free access to over 100 million publications and preprints to help you find exactly what you need, quickly and easily. It also shows the context - with citations, news and social media mentions, and links to funded grants and patents. Docalysis Upload a document or collection of document to chat with them and get answers to your questions instead of having to read them. docAnalyzer Ask questions and receive precise answers in real time. docAnalyzer.AI offers dynamic, context-aware interactions with one or multiple PDFs, powered by cutting-edge AI research for superior document analysis. Dovetail Accurately auto-transcribe interviews, build your taxonomy and visualize your research. Elicit: The AI Research Assistant Elicit uses language models to help automate research workflows, like parts of a literature review. Elicit can find relevant papers without perfect keyword match, summarize takeaways from the paper specific to your question, and extract key information from the papers. While answering questions with research is the main focus of Elicit, there are also other research tasks that help with brainstorming, summarization, and text classification. EvidenceHunt This tool provides a chat-interface to assist users