allows users to quickly answer any questions they have about a paper, a Paper Espresso feature that helps to generate literature reviews quickly, an AI-powered research tool that accelerates the reading process, a low code paper editor, and a powerful notes system with backlinks and outgoing links for increased efficiency. Paper Brain Search for complex academic white papers. This tool will then help simplify the papers by allowing you to ask questions in natural language about the papers. Paper Digest Paper Digest is an AI tool that distills a research paper into a three-minute read, allowing readers to quickly grasp the core ideas of a paper. Paperguide AI Research Assistant, Reference Manager and Writing Assistant that help you understand papers, manage references, annotate/take notes, and improve your writing. PaperQA2 PaperQA2 is an agent optimized for retrieving and summarizing information from the scientific literature. PaperQA2 has access to a variety of tools that allow it to find papers, extract useful information from those papers, explore the citation graph, and formulate answers. Paper Wizard A tool for writing papers that includes source embedding and citations. PDF.ai Ask questions, extract information, and summarize documents that you upload. Not just articles and books, but legal agreements, financial reports, user manuals. Petal With Petal, you can narrow down from hundreds of papers to a few using any criteria you define through the AI. Identify measured outcomes, trace driving factors and influencers, assess potential weaknesses, and compare similar studies using our unique multi-document AI table. Prophy Find, follow, share, and collect the most relevant articles for you, find referees, construct editorial boards or panels and create peer performance comparisons across disciplines and career stages. PUREsuggest PUREsuggest is a scientific literature search tool that, starting from some seed papers, suggests scientific publications through citations/references. R Discovery R Discovery provides readers with the top 3 papers to read every day without having to search for them day-in day-out. It presents the key highlights of the papers upfront for you so that you only spend time reading full texts where it’s absolutely worth it. Reduct For qualitative researchers, Reduct is a collaborative transcript-based video and audio platform for reviewing, searching, highlighting, and editing content of people talking, at scale. ResearchAlde ResearchAIde is the ideal tool for students, researchers, and business professionals seeking to extract and synthesize relevant information from research papers quickly and efficiently, saving time. ResearchBuddy Research Buddy is an AI-powered tool that generates comprehensive Academic Literature Reviews with Harvard Referencing in just a matter of minutes. This tool is designed to simplify the process of literature review, making it quick and easy. Research Rabbit ResearchRabbit is an innovative “citation-based literature mapping tool" that allows you to supply a seed paper and find more papers relevant to the topic of interest. ScholarAI ScholarAI is a ChatGPT Plugin that helps connect users to peer-reviewed open access research articles. Scholarcy Scholarcy gives you more than just an abstract. It condenses papers into referenced summaries, highlights key claims and statistics and