other chatbots and may be more suitable for users who are concerned about chatbots doing objectionable things. Forefront Forefront provides free access to ChatGPT-4, 3.5, as well as other models. It enables you to create and use personas, generate images, and share content with colleagues. FreedomGPT Download this free chatbot to fun locally on your computer to enjoy faster response and the privacy of not having to share your data with big tech companies. Gemini Formerly known as Bard, Google Gemini also offers a paid option called Gemini Advanced. Gemini features multimodality and performance, handling various input formats like text, code, audio, and video. GPT4All This uncensored chatbot is a free-to-use, locally running, privacy-aware chatbot that can be downloaded and trained on your own data without risking your privacy to big tech companies. Myriad: AI Content Prompt Generator This free tool lets you build and fine-tune prompts for writing, rewriting, or analyzing content. It’s optimized for ChatGPT but also works with Copilot and other AIs. Open Assistant This free, independent, uncensored chatbot has fewer guardrails and may respond more freely to questions than more conventional bots. Perplexity This free AI software operates in a manner similar to ChatGPT but it is not as popular so you may not have to wait as long to access it. Phind Phind is an intelligent search engine and assistant. It is connected to the internet and uses generative AI to give you the answer you're looking for in seconds instead of hours. Pickaxe Pickaxe is a platform to building, managing, and deploying AI prompts. It's a hub for prompt engineers and AI pioneers. Poe Poe is a bot aggregator that features access to many of the more popular chatbots and allows users to create their own bots as well. PromptHero This searchable index of prompts allows you to find the right words to get the best results from AI programs like ChatGPT and DALL-E. WebChatGPT Augment your ChatGPT prompts with more current relevant results from the web. This free extension adds relevant web results to your prompts to ChatGPT for more accurate and up-to-date conversations. You.com This tool allows you to search, chat, and create with AI. Research and Literature Review Tools 2D Search 2Dsearch is a radical alternative to conventional 'advanced search'. Instead of entering Boolean strings into one-dimensional search boxes, queries are formulated by manipulating objects on a two-dimensional canvas. AI Researcher Simply pose a question, and AI Researcher will delve into an extensive library of textbooks, pinpointing the most relevant works and specific passages that directly address your research query. Any Summary Summarize a wide variety of file types including audio and video files or a URL in bullet points, quotes, or a full abstract. AskYourPDF Upload documents into this tool and it will allow you to chat with them and ask questions of them. ASReview Lab This tool helps with conducting systematic reviews by searching for and identifying the most relevant records by screening large amounts of text. Carrot Search