a seed paper and find more papers relevant to the topic of interest. ScholarAI ScholarAI is a ChatGPT Plugin that helps connect users to peer-reviewed open access research articles. Scholarcy Scholarcy gives you more than just an abstract. It condenses papers into referenced summaries, highlights key claims and statistics and extracts tables and images. It helps you to filter out the noise, identify the most relevant papers faster, and easily jump between the sections in an article that are most important to your work. ScholarGPT Enhance research with 200M+ resources and built-in critical reading skills. Access Google Scholar, PubMed, JSTOR, Arxiv, and more via this custom version of ChatGPT. Scispace This AI program decodes research papers to help you read and understand scientific literature faster. Highlight confusing text, math, and tables to get a simple explanation. Ask follow-up questions and get instant answers. SciSpace Literature Review is also worth trying: https://typeset.io/search Scispace Copilot This AI tool summarizes scientific papers to reduce time spent reading. SciSummary Send an email or upload an article to our dashboard with text, a link, or even attach a PDF and within minutes you'll receive a summary in your inbox. The perfect tool for busy scientists, students and enthusiasts who don't have time to read through long and complicated scientific articles. scite Discover supporting and contrasting evidence for papers. Upload a PDF to check if the references have been supported, contrasted, retracted, received an expression of concern, etc. Semantic Scholar An academic search engine that utilizes artificial intelligence methods to provide highly relevant results and novel tools to filter them with ease. Smmry Summarize PDF or TXT documents by uploading a file or summarize online articles or webpages by pasting the URL. Snowball Snowball allows users to quickly find and filter through papers using the snowballing method. Start with a core collection of papers, and find more by going through their citations and references. Sourcely Upload an essay and Sourcely will provide reputable, credible academic references, summarize them, and extract key insights from them. TLDR This Upload text and this tool will summarize it for you, extract the citation, and estimate the reading time. Undermind Undermind features an AI assistant that carefully reads hundreds of academic papers for you, finding exactly what you need, no matter how complex. VOSviewer VOSviewer is a software tool for constructing and visualizing bibliometric networks. These networks may for instance include journals, researchers, or individual publications, and they can be constructed based on citation, bibliographic coupling, co-citation, or co-authorship relations. VOSviewer also offers text mining functionality that can be used to construct and visualize co-occurrence networks of important terms extracted from a body of scientific literature. Zeta Alpha Use state-of-the-art Neural Search and Generative AI to improve how you and your team discover, organize and share internal knowledge. Writing Tools AI-Writer This subscription-based tool boasts the ability to generate article drafts just from a headline, cite verifiable sources, and draw upon up to date content. Article Forge Using advanced artificial intelligence