Search and Generative AI to improve how you and your team discover, organize and share internal knowledge. Writing Tools AI-Writer This subscription-based tool boasts the ability to generate article drafts just from a headline, cite verifiable sources, and draw upon up to date content. Article Forge Using advanced artificial intelligence and deep learning, Article Forge writes entire 1,500+ word articles automatically. Humata Summarize lengthy papers and turn complex technical papers into simply explained summaries. Automatically create new writing based on your file. Jenni AI This research and writing tool automatically completes sentences, creates tone and style, cites in multiple styles, paraphrases and rewrites. PaperPal This tool offers real-time, subject specific language suggestions to help you write better and faster. QuillBot This tool allows you to paraphrase text, check grammar, and get explanations to learn from mistakes and improve your writing. Sudowrite According to their website, Sudowrite is the non-judgmental,always-there-to-read-one-more-draft, never-runs-out-of-ideas-even-at-3am, AI writing partner you always wanted. Textero Get your papers and research done in minutes with Textero AI essay generator. Wordtune Spices Unlike ChatGPT, Wordtune Spices can cite its sources and utilize the most recent data from the internet. Writefull Automated paraphraser, abstract generator, title generator and copyeditor that has been trained on millions of scholarly journal articles. Writesonic An article writing tool that features paraphrasing, text expansion, and single-click summarization. Yomu This writing tool aids in crafting academic papers by generating suggestions as you type, helping you overcome writer's block. Grant Writing Tools Grantable Upload existing grant proposals and writing to train the AI. Input a question or prompt from an RFP. Let Grantable AI draft answers for you to approve using your previous answers. Granted ai Granted's specialized AI is trained on successful proposals that have generated billions of dollars. Instantly generate high-quality drafts for a wide range of grant proposals, appeals, letters of support, articles, and more, just by entering simple information about your project. Meeting and Video Tools Clipto Clipto transcribes your audio, video, or YouTube files to text swiftly and accurately. This app is essential for podcasts, corporate meetings, interviews, class recordings, and much more. It supports over 99 languages with 99% accuracy. Deep Motion Animate 3D, AI motion capture from any video, and SayMotion, harnessing the power of Generative AI to seamlessly transform text into dynamic animations. Fathom Fathom records, transcribes, highlights, and summarizes your meetings so you can focus on the conversation Fireflies.ai Fireflies.ai helps your research team transcribe, summarize, search, and analyze voice conversations Invideo Enter a text prompt and invideo generates a script, creates scenes, adds voiceovers, & tweaks the video at your command. Lucas AI Video Creator Turn any text prompt into a professional video, including interactive video, without scripts or tech skills. A built-in editor makes it easy to make changes. Luman5 This tool enables users to turn text or blogs into video. Machine Translation This tool is designed to analyze, compare, and recommend the best machine translation for any given text and language pair. It relies on the