summarize takeaways from the paper specific to your question, and extract key information from the papers. While answering questions with research is the main focus of Elicit, there are also other research tasks that help with brainstorming, summarization, and text classification. EvidenceHunt This tool provides a chat-interface to assist users in locating clinical and biomedical evidence. ExperAI The tool enables users to find experts in various fields, such as writing, engineering, psychology, and medicine, among others. Users can connect with experts to start a random chat or select a popular expert from the list. Explainpaper Characterizing itself as "a better way to read papers" Explainpaper allows users to upload a paper, highlight confusing text, and Explalnpaper will provide an explanation. Genei This tools provides keyword extraction and definition, semantic and query-based search within and across documents, summarization of entire documents and sections within them. Hypothesis Maker Hypothesis Maker is an AI-driven tool that generates a hypothesis based on your research question. Powered by advanced AI models like GPT-4 and ChatGPT, this tool can help streamline your research process and enhance your scientific studies. Inciteful Inciteful consists of two different tools: Paper Discovery builds a network of papers from citations, uses network analysis algorithms to analyze the network, and gives you the information you need to quickly get up to speed on that topic. Literature Connector is intended for interdisciplinary scholars trying to bridge two domains, and allows you to enter two papers to give you an interactive visualization showing you how they are connected by the literature. Iris.ai A comprehensive platform for research processing: smart search and a wide range of smart filters, reading list analysis, auto-generated summaries, autonomous extraction and systematizing of data. Keenious Keenious analyzes articles that you supply and searches for similar articles to provide you with related research. Laser.ai Designed to reduce literature reviews and systematic reviews time by half. Lateral Lateral allows you to import papers relevant to your topic and then finds similar ones that match those. Litmaps Litmaps uses citation searching to reveal new papers on a topic and then creates a visual map of the literature to illustrate how the studies relate to one another. MirrorThink Unleash the power of AI for science and find answers to all your burning questions about scientific methods, research, papers and more. Notion Upload content and this AI tool will allow you to ask questions, create summaries, drafts and tables. Open Knowledge Maps Based on the search term you provide, Open Knowledge Maps creates a visualization in the form of a map that provides an overview of the topic based on the most relevant papers that it finds. OpenRead OpenRead features a Paper Q&A tool that allows users to quickly answer any questions they have about a paper, a Paper Espresso feature that helps to generate literature reviews quickly, an AI-powered research tool that accelerates the reading process, a low code paper editor, and a powerful notes system with backlinks and outgoing links for increased efficiency.