AI Tools - Artificial Intelligence Tools for Detection, Research and Writing - Guides at Texas Tech University Skip to Main Content Texas Tech University Guides Artificial Intelligence Tools for Detection, Research and Writing AI Tools Search this Guide Search Artificial Intelligence Tools for Detection, Research and Writing Generative AI Related Writing and Research Tools Co-Owned and Co-Curated by Brian Quinn and Erin Burns Home AI Detection AI Tools Prompts and Places to Start Research and Literature Review Tools Writing Tools Grant Writing Tools Meeting and Video Tools Other Useful Tools Texas Tech Resources AI Images and Multimedia Citing AI Copyright Librarian Brian Quinn Email Me Request an Appointment Contact: Reference Room Mezzanine M 113 806-834-2148 Subjects: Anthropology , Artificial Intelligence , Psychological Sciences , Social Work , Sociology STEM Librarian Erin Burns she/her/hers Email Me Schedule Appointment Contact: Library Mezzanine (balcony) Room 112 University Library Texas Tech University 2802 18th St Lubbock, TX 79410 806-834-2142 Social: LinkedIn Page Twitter Page Instagram Page GoodReads Page Subjects: Artificial Intelligence , Chemical Engineering , Civil & Environmental Engineering , Computer Science , Construction Engineering & Engineering Technology , Electrical and Computer Engineering , Engineering , Industrial Engineering , Mechanical Engineering , Petroleum Engineering , Wind Science and Engineering Research Center Prompts and Places to Start Generative AI Product Tracker The Generative AI Product Tracker features an extensive, updated list of generative AI products that are either marketed specifically towards postsecondary faculty or students or appear to be actively in use by postsecondary faculty or students for teaching, learning, or research activities. AgentGPT Assemble, configure, and deploy autonomous AI agents in your browser that learn on their own without requiring prompts. Andi Andi is an AI search chatbot that is accurate, ad-free and privacy-focused. It uses a new type of search engine powered by generative AI combined with live data and semantic search technology. Instead of just links, Andi gives you answers - like chatting with a smart friend. Bearly This business focused tool allows you to interact with documents, transcribe audio and video, access the web and transcribe audio and generate meeting minutes and identify key takeaways. ChatGPT For those curious to try ChatGPT, this site provides a link to do so. ChatGPT is trained to interact in a conversational way. The dialogue format makes it possible for ChatGPT to answer followup questions, admit its mistakes, challenge incorrect premises, and reject inappropriate requests. ChatGPT Prompt Genius Discover, share, import, and use the best prompts for ChatGPT & save your chat history locally. Chatsonic Chatsonic is a conversational AI NLP processor that attempts to address the limitations of ChatGPT. Claude This AI chatbot is designed to be more ethical and safer to use than other chatbots and may be more suitable for users who are concerned about chatbots doing objectionable things. Forefront Forefront provides free access to ChatGPT-4, 3.5, as well as other models. It enables you to create and use personas, generate images, and share content with colleagues. FreedomGPT Download this free chatbot