Citing AI - Artificial Intelligence Tools for Detection, Research and Writing - Guides at Texas Tech University Skip to Main Content Texas Tech University Guides Artificial Intelligence Tools for Detection, Research and Writing Citing AI Search this Guide Search Artificial Intelligence Tools for Detection, Research and Writing Generative AI Related Writing and Research Tools Co-Owned and Co-Curated by Brian Quinn and Erin Burns Home AI Detection AI Tools Texas Tech Resources AI Images and Multimedia Citing AI Resources for Citing AI What If I Can't Find the Citations? Copyright Resources for Citing AI APA Style: How to Cite ChatGPT Information about how to quote AI-generated text, create references to AI models and software, and related issues. The Case for Not Citing Chatbots As Information Sources A piece of text that is entirely generated by generative AI ought to be marked as such for the sake of trust and transparency. But the matter of authors citing chatbots as information sources refers to a different issue. Chatbots: To Cite Or Not to Cite? If you use a chatbot in writing a text, and are discouraged from listing it as a coauthor, should you attribute the relevant passages to the tool via citation instead? Is it appropriate to cite chatbots as information sources? ChatGPT Citations: Formats and Examples Guidelines are still evolving, so this site from Scribbr provide formats based on what the different style guides have said about the issue so far. Chicago Style Online: Citing Content Developed or Generated by AI This site features questions and answers about how to cite AI in text and how to create formal citations for footnotes or endnotes. Citing AI-Generated Images Guidance from the U. of Victoria Libraries on citing images from some of the most popular AI image generators. MLA Style Center: How Do I Cite Generative AI in MLA Style? This site provides information about using the MLA template, paraphrasing and quoting text, citing creative visual works, and more. What If I Can't Find the Citations? I can’t find the citations that ChatGPT gave me. What should I do? ChatGPT and other AI tools sometimes make up citations that don't exist. ChatGPT might give you articles by an author that usually writes about your topic, or even identify a journal that published on your topic, but the title, pages numbers, and dates are completely fictional. This is because ChatGPT is not connected to the internet, so has no way of identifying actual sources. You can try to see if any are valid by searching in OneSearch on our home page or in Google Scholar, but chances are the sources do not exist. It's better to use ChatGPT for tasks like these: Brainstorming and getting creatively unstuck Editing and constructive criticism of your writing Explaining concepts at multiple difficulty levels Summarizing long texts other writing and text-related tasks. It's not designed to be a search engine. Use OneSearch , library databases for your discipline , or Google Scholar instead. (Adapted from University of Arizona