Writing Prompts - AI for Research - Library Guides at University of Nevada, Reno
Skip to Main Content
University Libraries
University of Nevada, Reno
Ask a Librarian
Help
Skill Guides
Subject Guides
Search this Group Search
AI for Research: Writing Prompts
Guidance on generative AI for research, including what generative AI is and how it works, generative AI tools, limitations of generative AI tools for research, tips for prompt generation, and how to cite generative AI
Home Writing Prompts AI & Source Evaluation AI Research Tools AI & Copyright Citing AI
What Are Prompts?
Prompting vs. keywords
A  search engine  such as Google or Bing works by finding, organizing, and ranking web sources. Search engines retrieve and rank relevant sources by matching the keywords in a search query to the  keywords  in a webpage. They may also provide a generative text summary drawn from the information in top webpages.
A  research database  such as JSTOR or ERIC provides a collection of pre-selected, high-quality sources, such as journal articles, often organized around a specific subject area. Like search engines, research databases retrieve relevant sources by matching them to  keywords  in a search query.
An  AI text generator  creates new content based upon predicting word sequences in response to a  prompt .
How to write good prompts
A  prompt  is the set of instructions you enter into a generative AI tool in order to make it output text, an image, or some other kind of content. Prompts may be short or long, consisting of a few words, a paragraph, or more. If you do not write a good prompt, you will not receive the output you want.
When working with an AI text generator like ChatGPT, it helps to have some basic information about the subject you are inquiring about. You should approach the tool as if you are having an intelligent conversation with it. Be prepared to revise and try again if you don’t get the information you need, and use follow-up questions to ask for clarification.
Follow these guidelines to write good prompts:
1.  Be specific and detailed , providing enough context so that the tool can understand what you want.
Example: I need to develop a lesson for teaching math skills to middle school students. What are some successful pedagogical approaches for teaching math?
2.  Specify the outcomes  you want from the tool (e.g., stages in a process, a list of features, a summary, or a list of pros and cons)
Example: At the end of my lesson I’d like to gauge whether middle school students have successfully learned the math skills that I’m teaching. Can you provide a description of different types of assessment methods that I can use for teaching math?
3.  Evaluate the output and improve the prompt  by asking for clarification or elaboration of different elements of the response.
Example: Can you expand on the use of technology in fostering math skills, especially in regard to the use of apps for teaching math?
Example: Could you discuss the concept of self-assessments a bit more in relation to math skills? What would students need to do to enable an accurate assessment of their abilities?
Finally, make sure to verify any information you get from the tool by confirming it in authoritative sources, like those you find through the  library website . AI text generators work by predicting words found in common patterns of textual data, which may or may not represent the truth.
<<  Previous:  Home Next:  AI & Source Evaluation >>
University of Nevada, Reno
1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno 89557
(775) 784-1110
Commitment to Diversity
Commitment to Accessibility
Equal Opportunity and Title IX
Employment & Careers
Privacy
LibApps Login