Assessing AI research tools - AI Tools for Research - Research Guides at Temple University
Skip to Main Content
University Libraries
Libraries Research Guides Topic Guides AI Tools for Research Assessing AI research tools
Search this Guide Search
AI Tools for Research
This guide offers advice on AI-powered tools and functionality created for or used in academic research.
Home Assessing AI research tools Framework for assessing AI research tools For instructors: AI tools assignment Popular chatbots and research AI in library subscriptions Searching literature Mapping literature Summarizing literature AI and evidence synthesis Working with data Writing code Presenting and publishing Get help
Framework for assessing AI research tools
Here are suggested questions to ask when assessing the quality of AI tools for research:
Access
Do you have access? Is there a cost to use this tool?
Sources
How much scholarly information does this tool access? Are its sources comprehensive for your discipline or topic? How does it deal with retracted research? Does it have access to actual data sources?
Relevancy
Are the tool's results and recommendations relevant? Do the most relevant items sort to the top of search results?
Accuracy
Are summaries, extracted information, and other AI outputs accurate? Are they sufficiently detailed?
Chatbot
How well do the conversational features work? Do they show common pitfalls of generative AI chatbots (e.g. vagueness, hallucinations, reliance on biased or limited training data)?
My Data
How will my chatbot conversations and personal data be used? Does the tool creator share my values on data security, ethics and privacy?
Goals
What am I hoping to learn? Will using this tool help me achieve that goal, or will it undermine my learning? Does this tool introduce more work to double check AI outputs?
For instructors: AI tools assignment
AI Tools Report Card
Instructors may use this customizable activity to empower students to ask and answer critical questions about AI research tools.
The activity can be delivered in various formats, including:
In class, on paper
Online, in breakout rooms
Asynchronously, as homework
As a cover sheet for an existing assignment
Students can complete the full report card on their own, or divide up the criteria to complete as a group.
This activity is shared with a  Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-SA license  so that instructors are free to use and adapt it to suit their teaching.
For any questions, or to share an adaptation that worked particularly well, please contact Caitlin Shanley ( cshanley@temple.edu ) and Olivia Given Castello ( olivia.castello@temple.edu ) of Temple University Libraries.
<<  Previous:  Home Next:  Popular chatbots and research >>
Last Updated:   Nov 20, 2024 11:41 AM
URL:   https://guides.temple.edu/ai-research-tools
Print Page
Login to LibApps
Report a broken link or other problem .
Tags:  AI ,  AI assistants ,  AI coding ,  AI ethics ,  artificial intelligence ,  chatbots ,  ChatGPT ,  digital literacy ,  GenAI ,  generative AI ,  literature mapping ,  literature search ,  Research Assistants ,  research skills ,  research tools ,  semantic search
Temple University
University Libraries
See all library locations
Library Directory Locations and Directions Frequently Called Numbers
Need help?  Email us  at asktulibrary@temple.edu