Optimizing prompts - Generative AI and Chatbots - Research Guides at Temple University
Skip to Main Content
University Libraries
Libraries Research Guides Topic Guides Generative AI and Chatbots Optimizing prompts
Search this Guide Search
Generative AI and Chatbots
This guide offers advice on generative AI chatbots and tools and how to best use them to support your work.
Home How chatbots work What chatbots do well What chatbots do less well Optimizing prompts Prompt Optimization Definition Prompt optimization basics More advice for fine tuning prompts Prompt Optimization Resources Generative AI in web search Citing generative AI AI tools for research   This link opens in a new window Ethical, equity, and privacy concerns Get help
Prompt Optimization Definition
Prompt optimization  (also called prompt engineering) "is the process of creating and refining prompts to optimize the performance of a language model or chatbot. A prompt is a piece of text that provides context and guidance for generating a response to a user query. It typically consists of a short phrase or sentence that describes the desired outcome of the conversation."  (Banik 2023)
Prompt optimization basics
Be as specific as you can. The better information you give to a chatbot, the better response you will get.
Consider including information about:
Audience: Who is the response intended for? (e.g. respond at a 6th grade reading level)
Tone: What tone is appropriate for the context? (e.g. a professional business letter? A humorous response?)
Length: How long should the response be? (e.g. summarize the article in one paragraph, list the top 5 things related to my topic)
Format: Is there a specific way the response should be formatted? (e.g. bullet points for a PowerPoint presentation, sort the results by date oldest to newest)
Role: What is the context for the query? Who is doing the asking? (e.g. "imagine you are...", "act as if...")
Example: Provide a list for a camp counselor of 10 fun outdoor activities for a group of 12-year-olds that will make them want to spend more time outside and away from screens.
More advice for fine tuning prompts
Here are some additional technique for improving chatbot responses:
Articulate the desired output format through examples
Avoid saying what not to do but say what to do instead
Interacting with chatbots can be iterative. Break questions into smaller steps and build.
Ask follow-up questions if you don’t get the response you were expecting.
Be prepared to rephrase and correct the chatbot
Use a clear separator like "###" to separate the instruction and context ​
Use the key command Shift + Enter to create line breaks in ChatGPT and write multiline prompts
26 principles for optimizing prompts Consider the list of 26 concrete suggestions for eliciting better responses from prompting large language models. This blog post summarizes the guidelines published in more detail in  Bsharat et al.'s 2024 journal article .
Prompt Optimization Resources
Best practices for prompt engineering with OpenAI API How to give clear and effective instructions to GPT-3. ChatGPT Prompt Engineering for Developers Short, free, 1 hour course jointly created by OpenAI and DeepLearning.AI for developers who want to access ChatGPT through its API. Learn Prompting Free and open source curriculum for mastering the skill of effectively engaging with AI. LinkedIn Learning: Introduction to Prompt Engineering for Generative AI [Requires Temple login]  Software developer and instructor Ronnie Sheer guides you through what large language models are and how to fine tune your prompts. One Useful Thing prompt library Prompt library created by Ethan Mollick and Lilach Mollick as a companion to their substack, One Useful Thing.
<<  Previous:  What chatbots do less well Next:  Generative AI in web search >>
Last Updated:   Oct 17, 2024 11:53 AM
URL:   https://guides.temple.edu/ai-chatbots
Print Page
Login to LibApps
Report a broken link or other problem .
Tags:  AI ,  AI ethics ,  artificial intelligence ,  Bard ,  Bing ,  chatbots ,  ChatGPT ,  Copilot ,  digital literacy ,  Gemini ,  generative AI ,  machine learning ,  misinformation ,  Perplexity ,  prompt engineering ,  prompt optimization
Temple University
University Libraries
See all library locations
Library Directory Locations and Directions Frequently Called Numbers
Need help?  Email us  at asktulibrary@temple.edu