Presenting and publishing - AI Tools for Research - Research Guides at Temple University
Skip to Main Content
University Libraries
Libraries Research Guides Topic Guides AI Tools for Research Presenting and publishing
Search this Guide Search
AI Tools for Research
This guide offers advice on AI-powered tools and functionality created for or used in academic research.
Home Assessing AI research tools Popular chatbots and research AI in library subscriptions Searching literature Mapping literature Summarizing literature AI and evidence synthesis Working with data Writing code Presenting and publishing Publishing ethics Tools for writing and publishing Citing for publication Citation examples and formats Get help
Publishing ethics
Generative AI can blur the lines between genuine research and writing, and fabrication.  Use AI with caution in disseminating research and always follow journal, publisher, or conference policy on AI usage . Some common publisher policies:
AI tools cannot be listed as an author of a paper
Authors are liable for any breach of publication ethics
Authors should acknowledge and describe their use of AI in the Methods or other appropriate section
Authors should verify information provided by AI tools
Uploading content submitted for publication to an AI tool, whether by the author or a peer reviewer, may violate publisher agreements and compromise confidentiality
COPE position statement: Authorship and AI tools The Committee on Publication Ethics’ position statement on Authorship at AI tools articulates some principles common to most publishers. STM 2023 whitepaper: Generative AI in Scholarly Communications Academic publishing industry report subtitled  Ethical and Practical Guidelines for the Use of Generative AI in the Publication Process . It looks at the ethical, legal, and practical aspects of Generative AI technologies in scholarly publishing. This is a follow up to the STM 2021 whitepaper,  AI Ethics in Scholarly Communication .
Tools for writing and publishing
Grammarly Free tier corrects grammar, sets tone, and includes 100 AI writing prompts. jenni Searches for relevant research as you write a document.  Substantial free tier, allows uploads of your own sources, including PDFs. Keenious Searches for relevant research as you write in a Word or Google Doc. Can also search for research based on a seed article you supply.  QuillBot Mostly free tool that offers AI writing suggestions like grammar, paraphrasing, and auto-completing sentences. Has extensive  help documentation . thesify Gives feedback on a manuscript tailored to the journal you hope to publish in. Suggests journals and conferences related to your manuscript. Use code WELCOMETHESIFY for additional initial free credits. Trinka AI-powered English grammar checker and writing assistant designed for academic and technical writing. Free tier includes grammar and language checks, journal finder, and publication readiness tools.
Citing for publication
Different publishers may have different policies on whether or not generative AI is allowed and how to cite it. Check your publisher's information for authors webpage, or contact their editorial staff, for details.
If using chatbot or other generative AI-created content, here are ways to acknowledge that usage:
Create a publicly available link to the content (try  ShareGPT  or  A.I.  Archives ) --> cite it in the text and references of your work
Without a publicly available link to the content --> cite it like a personal communication
Describe your AI use as part of your methodology
Include an appendix with screenshots or transcripts of prompts and AI-generated responses
Citation examples and formats
APA 7: How to Cite ChatGPT Chicago 17: How to cite content generated by artificial intelligence MLA 9: How do I cite generative AI in MLA style? Open AI: How should I credit DALL-E in my work?
<<  Previous:  Writing code Next:  Get help >>
Last Updated:   Nov 20, 2024 11:41 AM
URL:   https://guides.temple.edu/ai-research-tools
Print Page
Login to LibApps
Report a broken link or other problem .
Tags:  AI ,  AI assistants ,  AI coding ,  AI ethics ,  artificial intelligence ,  chatbots ,  ChatGPT ,  digital literacy ,  GenAI ,  generative AI ,  literature mapping ,  literature search ,  Research Assistants ,  research skills ,  research tools ,  semantic search
Temple University
University Libraries
See all library locations
Library Directory Locations and Directions Frequently Called Numbers
Need help?  Email us  at asktulibrary@temple.edu