What chatbots do well - Generative AI and Chatbots - Research Guides at Temple University
Skip to Main Content
University Libraries
Libraries Research Guides Topic Guides Generative AI and Chatbots What chatbots do well
Search this Guide Search
Generative AI and Chatbots
This guide offers advice on generative AI chatbots and tools and how to best use them to support your work.
Home How chatbots work What chatbots do well "Generative" AI chatbots Some things chatbots may do well Popular, standalone chatbots Manage your chatbot settings What chatbots do less well Optimizing prompts Generative AI in web search Citing generative AI AI tools for research   This link opens in a new window Ethical, equity, and privacy concerns Get help
"Generative" AI chatbots
As word prediction systems, AI chatbots are inventive and "generative" and they can be useful for creative tasks. Because they have been trained on large quantities of text from the open Internet and their aim is to mimic human conversation, they can be useful for language-based tasks. With increasing levels of human fine-tuning and access to third-party plugins, some chatbots are improving at other types of tasks as well.
Some things chatbots may do well
Currently, AI chatbot responses often include a mix of correct and incorrect information. They may still be helpful for:
Brainstorming ideas, including research topics
Coming up with search keywords
Starting point for translating some foreign languages
Writing computer code and learning about coding
Depending on your goals, they may also be good at
Summarizing text, especially in general terms or for specific reading levels or audiences
Writing and editing text, such as applying an editorial style or tone
Creating original images
Whether you are asking them to answer questions, write text, translate text, or write code, be sure to check chatbot output for errors.
Popular, standalone chatbots
Microsoft Copilot Free to use. Requires signing in with a Microsoft account. Has internet access and creates original images. Shows ads. ChatGPT Freemium model. Requires creating and logging into an OpenAI account. See  the OpenAI support pages  for help documentation. Claude Freemium model. Requires creating and logging in with an Anthropic account. Accepts file uploads. See  Anthropic's Claude guide , and  support pages  for help documentation. Google Gemini Free to use. Requires signing in with a Google account. Accepts image uploads. Has internet access and allows use of embedded Google search to "double-check responses."  Connects to other Google services with optional Extensions. Stay up-to-date on Gemini features via  its Experiment update page  and see documentation in  Gemini Apps Help . Perplexity Freemium model. Accepts file uploads. Has internet access and connects to several third-party services with Focus choices such as YouTube, Reddit, and Semantic Scholar and Wolfram|Alpha for research. See  the Perplexity FAQ  for help documentation.
Manage your chatbot settings
It is possible to customize some account, data, and privacy settings in many chatbots and tools.
Anthropic's Claude does not have such settings because of their safety-first approach. Anthropic was founded by former OpenAI employees who disagreed with OpenAI's departure from its initial non-profit plans.  Read more about Anthropic's core views on AI safety .
ChatGPT personal data controls FAQ Explains OpenAI's current uses of account holders' personal data and includes instructions for turning off chat history and model training, exporting your ChatGPT history and data, and managing other account settings. Google Gemini Apps Privacy Help Hub Clearly describes how Google handles your Gemini Apps data and explains how to configure your settings to use Gemini without saving your conversations to your Google Account. Links to instructions on how to  manage and delete your Gemini activity . Microsoft Edge, browsing data, and privacy Microsoft doesn't make it as clear as Google and OpenAI how to manage your Copilot settings. It does allow you to manage Edge browser and Bing search privacy settings, which relate to Copilot through the  Microsoft privacy dashboard . This help document describes some of the details. Perplexity data privacy options Instructions for managing data settings and opting out of AI improvement training are in Perplexity's FAQ.
<<  Previous:  How chatbots work Next:  What chatbots do less well >>
Last Updated:   Oct 17, 2024 11:53 AM
URL:   https://guides.temple.edu/ai-chatbots
Print Page
Login to LibApps
Report a broken link or other problem .
Tags:  AI ,  AI ethics ,  artificial intelligence ,  Bard ,  Bing ,  chatbots ,  ChatGPT ,  Copilot ,  digital literacy ,  Gemini ,  generative AI ,  machine learning ,  misinformation ,  Perplexity ,  prompt engineering ,  prompt optimization
Temple University
University Libraries
See all library locations
Library Directory Locations and Directions Frequently Called Numbers
Need help?  Email us  at asktulibrary@temple.edu