AI tools for assignments - Biomedical Science - LibGuides at Technological University of Dublin - Library This site uses cookies and records your IP address for usage statistics. Read More OK Skip to Main Content TU Dublin - libraries LibGuides Chemical, Physical and Applied Sciences Biomedical Science AI tools for assignments Search this Guide Search Biomedical Science Home Getting Started Books and eBooks Journals & Databases Toggle Dropdown FInding full-text articles Google Scholar Clinical Trials Open Science: key websites Dissertations and final year projects AI tools for assignments Referencing and Academic Integrity Academic Writing New Resources and Training Events AI Tools for Academic Assignments Prompts for genAI To get the best results from your AI tool think about using as good a prompt as possible. The information, sentences, or questions that you enter into a genAI tool (“prompts”) are a big influence on the quality of outputs you receive. After you enter a prompt, the AI model analyzes your input and generates a response based on the patterns it has learned through its training. More descriptive prompts can improve the quality of the outputs. See the CLEAR Prompt framework for using prompts with AI at the end of this guide. Or try Getting started with prompts for genAI AI Literacy LibGuide Artificial Intelligence (AI) Literacy by Róisín Guilfoyle Last Updated Oct 18, 2024 1197 views this year Doing a Literature Review Literature Review by Róisín Guilfoyle Last Updated Aug 9, 2024 4251 views this year Finding Journal Papers (Sourcing, Linking and Visualization Tools with genAI) Semantic Scholar is a free, AI-powered research tool for scientific literature, based at the Allen Institute for AI. It has recently announced Semantic Reader which is an augmented reader to help make research articles more accessible and contextual. Open Knowedge Maps : is an AI-based visual interface that can help increases the visibility of research findings for science. It searches and visualizes content from PubMed and BASE resources, based on subject relevance . Open Knowledge maps provide an instant overview of a topic by showing the main areas at a glance, and journal articles and documents related to each area. This makes it possible to easily identify useful, pertinent information. Free of charge. Connected Papers : Connected Papers is a unique, visual tool to help researchers and applied scientists find and explore papers relevant to their field of work. Keenious: This tool analyses the text you already have written and makes suggestions of relevant articles. Research Rabbit : is a free “citation-based literature mapping tool” available online. Start by using one or more papers (called seed papers), and the app will find more papers relevant to the topic or author of interest (which is dictated by the seed papers you previously selected). The software scans for any publicly available (open access) source online and selects papers based on their similarities. Data sources include Semantic Scholar and PubMed. Save and export results to Zotero. Remember: these are all evolving tools. They tend to scrape data from