Getting Started - Biomedical Science - LibGuides at Technological University of Dublin - Library This site uses cookies and records your IP address for usage statistics. Read More OK Skip to Main Content TU Dublin - libraries LibGuides Chemical, Physical and Applied Sciences Biomedical Science Getting Started Search this Guide Search Biomedical Science Home Getting Started Books and eBooks Journals & Databases Toggle Dropdown FInding full-text articles Google Scholar Clinical Trials Open Science: key websites Dissertations and final year projects AI tools for assignments Referencing and Academic Integrity Academic Writing New Resources and Training Events Writing your first assignment? Your first assignment can often be the most challenging. Check out our Doing your first assignment guide which provides expert advice and practical tips to help you get started. Find your source Find Your Source by Gary Thomas Call Number: 001.42 THO ISBN: 9781526488831 Publication Date: 2019 The key to building a strong academic argument is finding the best sources. Find Your Source shows you how to cut to the chase and uncover the right sources for your project. Hone your research skills and use your library effectively. Focus your online search so you don't get lost down a black hole. Sniff out quality sources (and reject the unreliable ones). Getting started Browse the sections of this guide to discover: where to locate books and journals in the library how to access and search for ebooks, journal articles and databases key journals, websites and databases for science databases help with citation and referencing styles If you are a new student and you would like to know more about using the Library's many services, please visit the Library Essentials Guide. Finding library resources Library catalogue The library catalogue will help you find material that is on the library's shelves such as print books and print journals. You can also use the library catalogue to find online journals and ebooks. Search All Search All allows you to find online journal articles and more. A-Z Databases The library's A-Z Databases contains a list of all the databases the library subscribes to. How to find... Try the quick guides on how to find different information sources, such as a journal article or material from your reading list. Types of information sources Types of quality information resources for your assignment or dissertation: Image source: types-of-sources.jpeg (1770×891) Evaluating sources of information When doing an assignment or carrying out research you will find information from lots of sources. Just being in print or available via the internet doesn't guarantee that something is accurate or good research. Whether searching for information or reading up on your results you need to think critically about that information and evaluate it before including or citing it in an assignment. Our Evaluating Information guide provides will help you to find and use credible information sources for assignments and projects. The CRAAP test Research cycle 1 Research Process 2 << Previous: Home Next: Books and eBooks >> Last Updated: Dec 11, 2024 5:55 PM