Referencing and Academic Integrity - Biomedical Science - LibGuides at Technological University of Dublin - Library This site uses cookies and records your IP address for usage statistics. Read More OK Skip to Main Content TU Dublin - libraries LibGuides Chemical, Physical and Applied Sciences Biomedical Science Referencing and Academic Integrity Search this Guide Search Biomedical Science Home Getting Started Books and eBooks Journals & Databases Toggle Dropdown FInding full-text articles Google Scholar Clinical Trials Open Science: key websites Dissertations and final year projects AI tools for assignments Referencing and Academic Integrity Academic Writing New Resources and Training Events Related Titles Cite Them Right is highly recommended for students who are new to referencing. There is an excellent chapter on Harvard (Section G) . Available in the library at Shelf Number 808.027 PEA eBook version also available A Student-Friendly Guide to Referencing: Harvard edition eBook version available Referencing: what is it? A Citation/in-text citation : these appear in the main body of your assignment and so, are often called –in-text citations’. They ‘refer’ to the list of references or bibliography at the end of your paper. A Reference : an entry in your list of references or bibliography at the end of your paper. A Reference List : the list of items you referred to in your assignment. This name can be used interchangeably with the word bibiography. A Bibliography : the list of items you referred to in your assignment and also the items you used for your research but didn’t cite. These two names are often used interchangeably. A Citation style : There are many citation styles, e.g. AMA, RSC, APA, Harvard. Check with your lecturer/school as to which one you need to use Referencing Style for Biomedical Science Tip: check with your School or project supervisor as there may be a specific in-house referencing style requirement for your dissertation or assignment. If you're new to the Harvard referencing style use these getting started videos: Harvard Referencing - the basics Harvard Referencing - using in-text citations Harvard Referencing - creating a reference list Endnote reference manager; an introduction Mendeley an introduction: video tutorial Mendeley: getting started guide Harvard Referencing Guide (Science) Printable document Getting Started with Referencing and Citing Printable document Citing and Referencing Journal Abbreviations Abbreviated journal titles may be required in your list of references depending on the citation style used. Some useful tools which 'translate' the full journal title into the abbreviated version are: Web of Science Journals CASSI All that JAS Reference manager software Various freeware options can be used to manage, cite and store your citations: Zotero Mendeley CiteThisForMe BibGuru << Previous: AI tools for assignments Next: Academic Writing >> Last Updated: Dec 11, 2024 5:55 PM URL: https://tudublin.libguides.com/biomedical_science Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem Subjects: Biology , Biomedical sciences Tags: Science This work is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 4.0